

===== PAGE 1 =====
Ananthasagar, Hasanparthy
Hanumakonda 506371, 
Telangana, India
T: 0(870) 281-8333 / 8311
info@sru.edu.in
www.sru.edu.in
23
24
STUDENT
HANDBOOK 


===== PAGE 2 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
2


===== PAGE 3 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
3
Message from the Chancellor
Dear Students,
We are delighted to welcome you to 
SR University, where your energy and 
excitement enrich our vibrant campus life. SR 
University is an educational institution that 
is revolutionizing the education sector with 
innovative practices to create an ecosystem 
that moulds a student into a holistic being. 
While you are beginning your educational 
journey with us, we look forward to learning, 
exploring, and growing together.
At SR University, you are part of a strong 
campus community that values academic 
excellence and diversity. With a campus 
culture of curiosity, critical thinking, and 
collaboration, you have the opportunity to 
participate in cutting-edge research and 
creative opportunities with our world-class 
faculty, and we in turn have the opportunity 
to gain new knowledge and perspective from 
our inquisitive and exceptional student body.  
We aim to provide our students with a rich 
learning environment where we can all reach 
our highest potential. We trust you will find 
unlimited opportunities for growth here at 
SR University. As a university dedicated to 
educating the next generation of contributors 
and leaders, we are excited to invest in your 
future, and to partner with you as you pursue 
your dreams.  
Welcome abroad. Wish you an exciting and 
enriching learning experience at SRU!
Varada Reddy Anagandula
Chancellor, SR University  


===== PAGE 4 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
4
T
he Student Handbook is 
for the academic year 
2023-24. This handbook 
will help you understand the 
campus life, the facilities and 
services offered to students 
beyond academics so that 
you have a productive and 
comfortable stay on the 
campus.


===== PAGE 5 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
5
Student Handbook Purpose and 
Scope
• This handbook provides an overview of essential 
policies, procedures, resources and services 
available to the students of SR University. 
• The provisions, contained in this set of 
Academic Regulations, govern the policies 
and procedures on the admission of students, 
imparting instructions of courses, conducting 
of examinations, evaluation, research, and 
certification of students’ performance.
• This set of Regulations, on approval by the 
Governing Body, shall supersede all the 
corresponding earlier set of Regulations of the 
University, with all the amendments thereto, and 
shall be binding on all students.
• However, the effect of year-to-year (periodic) 
refinements in the Academic Regulations & 
Curriculum, on the students admitted in earlier 
years, shall be dealt with appropriately and 
carefully, so as to ensure that those students are 
not subjected to any unfair situation whatsoever, 
although they are required to conform to these 
revised set of Regulations and Curriculum, 
without any undue favour  or considerations.
• Any legal disputes arising from this set of 
Regulations shall be limited to the legal jurisdiction   
determined by the location of the University and 
not that of any other parties.
• All the programs offered by the University shall 
be governed by these Academic Regulations.

===== PAGE 6 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
6
TABLE OF CONTENTS
University Overview 9
Vision 14
Mission 14
Leadership at SRU 16
Campus Life  24
Office of the Student Affairs 24
Institution Timings 24
Dress Code 24
Identification Card 24
Internet Facility 27
Hostels 27
Transport 28
Feedback 31
Security 31
Personal Vehicles 31
Health and Wellness 31
University Library 32
Printing Facility 34
ATM Facility 34
SR Academic & Administration Portal (SRAAP) 34
Batch Representatives 34
Centre for Student Services and Placements (CSSP) 35
Portfolio Creation 35
SR Innovation Exchange (SRiX) 36
Mentoring and Advising 37
Student Responsibilities 39
Social Media 39
Awards for Toppers 39
Sports and Games  40
Cafeteria 41

===== PAGE 7 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
7
Open Door Policy 41
Alumni Connect 42
Alumni Services and Resources 42
Career Services  42
Networking Opportunities 42
Benefits and Discounts              42
Mentorship Programs 42
Alumni Chapters 42
Communication Channels 42
Recognition and Awards 42
Volunteer Opportunities 42
Access to SR University Facilities  42
Portal Registration Link  42
Contact Details 43
Student Activities and Events 45
Student Clubs                45
SRU Policies 52
Admissions 63
Program Curriculum 68
Attendance Policy 70
Examinations 71
I. For B.Tech/ M.Tech/ BBA/ MBA/B.Sc/M.Sc/BCA/MCA 71
II For B.Sc (Hons.) Agriculture and M.Sc Programs  80
    – School of Agriculture 80
Committee for Prevention of Academic Malpractice (CPAM) 86
Credit Transfer  91
Award of Medals 92
Ph.D. Regulations
Annexure I
Hostel Handbook of Rules & Regulations         223

===== PAGE 8 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
8


===== PAGE 9 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
9
UNIVERSITY OVERVIEW
SR University (SRU) is a State Private 
University in Warangal, Telangana, spread 
over 150 acres of lush green campus 
having ~9000 students, ~900 staff, 140+ 
Programs across five Schools, namely 
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, 
Engineering, Business, Agriculture, Sciences 
and Humanities.
NIRF: One of the youngest universities to 
attain 98 NIRF Rank in Engineering in 2023 
(91 in 2022) and is in 101-150 rank band in 
university category. 
NBA: All UG programs (B. Tech CSE, ECE, 
EEE, ME & CE) are NBA Accredited in Tier-I 
category. 
Startup Ecosystem: Hosts a Technology 
Business Incubator (SRiX) sponsored by 
NSTEDB, DST, Govt of India. Till now 84 
Start-ups (8 women startups) incubated 
with total valuation of 100+ Crore. Prime 
names are Zithara Technologies, Hiltbrands 
Technologies and VMS Healthcare Solutions. 
Recognized as Startup Hub- TIDE 2.0 Centre 
by Govt of India. All India 1st Rank in Private 
in Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation 
Achievements (ARIIA20).
Collaborations: 60+ Industry collaborations 
including Microsoft, Palo Alto Networks, 
Cyient, Siemens, ARM, AWS among others 
and foreign collaborations with UMass 
Lowell, U Central Missouri, U of New Haven, 
Saint Louis Univ, U of Missouri Columbia. 
Active Member of CII and Indo Universal 
Collaboration in Engineering Education 
(IUCEE). Proud to have an international 
advisory board having stellar personalities 
to advise the University.
Research: 2000+ Publications, 200+ 
patents, 15+ Crores of Research funding 
from 50+ Projects. 10 Research Centers in 
futuristic domains. Recognized as Scientific 
and Industrial Research Organisation (SIRO) 
by Govt of India.
Innovative Programs: One of the few 
institutions in the world running BTech 
Computer Science Program in partnership 
with Microsoft. BTech AI is being run in 
collaboration with some of the Top 500 
Universities in the globe to give requisite 
foreign exposure to the students. The School 
of Agriculture runs programs experiment in 
latest techniques for holistic practices in the 
food chain. 
Leadership and Legacy: SR Educational 
Society having 185 Educational institutions 
in South India with 45 years of track record, 
is run by its Chancellor Sri A. Varada Reddy, 
with 1 Lac students and 5 Lac Alumni. 
Placements: Campus hiring by 200+ top 
recruiters including Amazon, CISCO, IBM, 
PwC, Synopsys, S&P Global, Accenture, 
Infosys, Wipro, TCS, Cognizant, HCL, Tech 
Mahindra etc. with highest package of 34.4 
LPA.
SR University is committed to providing 
a comprehensive benefits package to its 
valuable staff members. SRU offers its staff  
members an array of benefits including 
PF, Gratuity, Medical Insurance, Research 
Incentive up to 1 Lac per publication and 
Professional Allowance of 1 Lac per year, 
Seed Grant up to 10 lac, Full-time PhD 
student hiring allowance up to 18 Lac 
for three years, 80% of the profit in the 
consultancy, and annual appraisal allowance 
of up to 1 Lac per year along with attractive 
growth and promotion opportunities.

===== PAGE 10 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
10


===== PAGE 11 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
11


===== PAGE 12 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
12
VISION
To accelerate the pace of transformation 
and advancement of the regional innovation 
ecosystem through academic excellence, 
industry relevance, and social responsibility.
MISSION
1. Produce technically competent, industry-
ready, and socially conscious leaders.
2. Engage in path-breaking research and 
disseminate the outcomes.
3. Collaborate with Industry, Government, and 
non-profit organizations for the benefit of 
the community.


===== PAGE 13 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
13


===== PAGE 14 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
14
LEADERSHIP AT SRU 
Chancellor
Sri A. Varada Reddy is a pioneer in providing quality 
education and his efforts have transformed the lives of 
many youngsters. A man known for discipline and vision; 
Sri Varada Reddy has been serving the field of education 
since 1976. With his unstinted efforts, SR has become a 
trusted brand name in Telangana. 
Under his leadership, 185 educational institutions, including 
schools, junior colleges, degree colleges and professional 
colleges across Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka 
are fostering excellent standards of education to young 
minds, shaping them into intellectuals. Sri. Varada Reddy 
has defined quality consciousness coupled with ethical 
practices as the DNA of SR group.
Vice-Chancellor
Prof. Deepak Garg is PhD in Computer Science with 
specialization in Efficient Algorithm Design. With 25 
years of experience, he has worked as a Professor and 
Dean, School of Computer Science at Thapar Institute 
of Engineering and Technology, Patiala and Bennett 
University, Greater Noida. He is a Distinguished Professor 
in Artificial Intelligence and known as one of the top voices 
in the country on AI. 
He is a regular Blogger in the Times of India with a nickname 
of “Breaking Shackles” and writes about Higher Education 
landscape and AI. He is on the Advisory Committee of 
AIRAWAT, Super Computing Mission of Govt of India to 
create a 1 Exaflop backbone infrastructure for the country. 
He has represented on various Committees at NAAC, 
NBA, UGC and AICTE. Working with Startup Founders 
is his passion, and he serves on the advisory board of 
Drishya AI, ByteXL and Global AI Hub. He is the only CAC 
ABET Commissioner from the country and has served as 
PEV from last seven years. He has been in the Board of 
Governors of IEEE Education Society, USA. He served 
as Chair IEEE Computer Society, India Council and IEEE 
Education Society, India Council. He is on senate, Board 
of Studies of various institutions. He has 180 publications 


===== PAGE 15 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
15
with 1900 Citations, h-index 22 and i10 
index 50. He has published in top journals 
including IEEE and ACM transactions. He has 
guided 14 PhD students. His research area is 
Reinforcement Learning and Generative AI. He 
is Steering Committee Chair on Annual IEEE/
Springer International Conference on Advance 
Computing that’s running in its 14th year. He 
has received research grants to the tune of 
10 million INR including Royal Academy of 
Engineering UK, DST, DBT, AICTE, DSCI etc. 
He has visited 20+ countries creating 100+ 
collaborations with Universities and Industry. 
He served as Director NVIDIA-BU Research 
Center on AI. He led the largest AI Ecosystem 
of the country known as leadingindia.ai skilling 
1 million students with 700+ consortium 
collaborations.  Prof. Garg has given 350+ 
talks across the country as keynote speaker 
and invited expert. He is on a mission to make 
SR University a model for private university in 
the country.
The other officers of the university include: -
1. Registrar
2. Chief Finance and Accounts Officer
3. Dean
4. Associate Dean
5. Director
6. Controller of Examination
7. Head of the Department
8. Such other officers as may be declared by 
the Statutes to be officers of the university.


===== PAGE 16 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
16
How to Reach SR University Campus
The SR University campus is situated at 
Ananthsagar, Hasanparthy (M), Warangal, 
Telangana 506371.  It is 14 kilometer from 
Hanumakonda which is the main city, 16 
kilometer from Kazipet Railway Station (KZJ) 
and 29 kilometer from Warangal Railway 
Station.
The campus is well connected by road, rail, 
and air transport. The nearest airport is Rajiv 
Gandhi International Airport, Hyderabad, 
which is 3 hours drive from Warangal. We are 
situated on Warangal – Karimnagar highway 
which is well connected by local transport, 
including bus and autorickshaw. We have a 
separate bus stop in front of the university, 
which is served by TSRTC buses that ply once 
every twenty minutes in both directions. For 
extensive bus route information, please visit 
TSRTC (telangana.gov.in).
2.4 Warangal and its History  
SRU is situated in Warangal ‘’ORUGALLU’’ or 
Ekashila Nagar, the name was given to the 
capital of the Kakatiya empire during that 
time.  The fort was constructed with a single 
massive stone, hence the later designation 
of “Warangal.” Pakhal Lake was built by 
the famous Kakatiya, Telugu ruler Ganapati 
Deva in the densest part of the forest to 
be used for farming in the future. About 
3,000,000 acres are now being submerged 
by it. The Kakatiya kings had many plans 
in the works to improve people’s lives in 
the future. They employed a wide range of 
engineering techniques; for example, the 
Ramappa temple was built on a lake, and 
the thousand pillar temples of Hanamkonda 
were built on the sandy ground; both have 
survived for a millennium. The Kakatiya 
dynasty, which ruled from 1163 to 1565, 
had its capital in Warangal. Fortresses, 
lakes, temples, and stone gates are only 
some of the Kakatiya dynasty’s contributions 
to the city’s status as a tourist hotspot. The 
state government of Telangana has placed 
the Kakatiya Kala Thoranam as the official 
emblem, and Warangal is often called the 
cultural capital of Telangana. Located in the 
state of Telangana, Warangal serves as the 
administrative center. With a population of 
around 10 Lac and an area of 406 km2 (157 
sq mi), it is the second-largest city in the 
state of Telangana. It is one of eleven cities 
in India to get funding from the Government 
of India’s Heritage City Development and 
Augmentation Yojana program. It was also 
chosen as a smart city in the “fast-track 
competition,” giving it access to additional 
funding from the Smart Cities Mission 
to enhance municipal infrastructure and 
industrial prospects. 


===== PAGE 17 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
17


===== PAGE 18 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
18


===== PAGE 19 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
19
Places to Visit 
in Warangal
• Ramappa Temple 
• Laknavaram Lake
• Bhadrakali Temple 
• Laknavaram Lake -            
suspension bridge
• Warangal Fort 
• Khush Mahal
• Bhogatha
W
arangal Tri-City 
refers to the 
metropolitan  
area that 
includes the cities of 
Kazipet, Hanamkonda, and 
Warangal. National Highway 
163 links Hyderabad, 
Bhuvanagiri, Warangal, 
and Bhopalpatnam. Kazipet 
Junction and Warangal are 
two of the most important 
stops. Warangal is well 
connected to the metro 
city Hyderabad which is 
180 km from the main city 
and well connected by rail 
and road. City is full of 
shopping areas, eateries, 
restaurants, and other 
places of entertainment. 
There are lot of schools for 
good educations of your 
children from primary to K12 
level. City is also known as a 
medical hub and has ample 
facilities for any health-
related issues. Residing in 
Tri-city fits the budget and 
there are houses available 
on rent for different 
requirements based on your 
budget.

===== PAGE 20 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
20
Schools @SRU  
The University has expanded its academic reach and now comprises several schools that offer 
a wide array of Undergraduate (UG) and Postgraduate (PG) programs and PhD Programs. Each 
school provides high-quality education and fostering a conducive learning environment for our 
students. 
The following are the schools under the University. 
School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence 
School of Engineering 
School of Business 
School of Sciences 
School of Agricultural Sciences 
We encourage you to explore SRU website to know about these schools.
Centers @SRU  
SRU hosts several Multidisciplinary Centers that foster research, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship. These centers serve as hubs for collaboration, creativity, and knowledge 
exchange. Centers enable faculty and students to explore cutting-edge ideas and address 
real-world challenges. 
To explore the extensive opportunities and services offered by each Multidisciplinary Center, 
we invite faculty members to visit the SRU website. 
I. Center for Artificial Intelligence & Deep Learning (CAIDL) 
II. Center for Embedded Systems and IoT (CEIoT)
III. Center for Materials and Manufacturing (CMM)
IV. Center for Emerging Energy Technologies (CEET)
V. Center for Construction Methods & Materials (CCMM)
VI. Center for Creative Cognition (CCC)
VII. Nest for Entrepreneurship in Science & Technology (NEST) 
VIII. Collaboratory for Social Innovation (CSI)
IX. Center for Design (CoD)
On website, you will find comprehensive information about ongoing research projects, 
upcoming events, and collaborations with industry partners. These centers are pivotal in 
driving research initiatives, promoting industry collaborations, and nurturing a culture of 
entrepreneurship within our academic community. 

===== PAGE 21 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
21
We value the dedication and enthusiasm of our faculty in advancing knowledge and making 
a positive impact on society. By harnessing the collective expertise of our faculty and the 
resources available through these Multidisciplinary Centers, we aim to create a vibrant 
ecosystem that nurtures creativity, drives innovation, and empowers the next generation of 
problem solvers.
learning 
Center for
Embedded
Systems
I  T
Center for
&
Center for
Materials and 
Manufacturing 
merging 
Center for
Methods and Materials
Construction
C enter for 
C
 for 
Unleashing the Inner Potential
 for Entrepreneurship in Science & Technology


===== PAGE 22 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
22
Campus Life 
Student life in the campus is well taken care in all aspects by the institution. The Policies 
and Regulations are framed keeping the student academic interests as the focal point. 
There is a large residential student population on campus and the University focuses on 
creating a conducive environment for the students to achieve their goals. 
Office of the Student Affairs
The primary function of this office is to look after day to day activities related to student life 
in the campus and to ensure the best student support is provided. Students shall reach at 
dean.sa@sru.edu.in for any assistance required.
This office looks after the overall student living, extracurricular and co-curricular activities, 
sports, health and planning of all university level events. It is also responsible for the 
maintaining of all hostels on campus. The set of values that are enforcing the professional 
and quality academic ambience in the campus are Discipline, Commitment and Skill 
development. This office works with student council, faculty and administration to ensure 
the well being of the student community.
Institution Timings
a) Timings: For all UG and PG courses: 9.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M. 
b) Bus Timings for Day-scholars:  Arrival at the Campus - 8.50 A.M. 
      Departure from the Campus - 5.00 P.M. 
Dress Code
Students shall wear neat clothes that are socially acceptable.  Torn attire/ Tops / T-Shirts 
with obscene words or language is not recommended.
Note: During the technical presentations and in placement season, student should come in 
formals only.
Identification Card
Each student will be provided with an Identification Card with his / her photo and name 
on it. It is mandatory for the students to wear the ID card inside the campus at all times. 
Students are also informed to wear their ID card while representing our institution in other 
College / University events such as sports, cultural and other academic activities. 
Internet Facility
The campus is wi-fi enabled and students have access to internet and learning management 
system while on campus. Students can login and have access to a secure network in 
common areas, labs, library and hostels.
All students are provided a username (email) based on their roll number. The email follows 
the nomenclature rollno@sru.edu.in. These login credentials can be used to connect to the 

===== PAGE 23 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
23


===== PAGE 24 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
24


===== PAGE 25 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
25
campus wifi network, learning management system and the mobile application.
Mr. A. Bala Krishna  Contact No: 8886522500
Mr. E. Manikanta Contact No: 8008917297 
Hostels
The primary purpose of hostels is to offer students with a “home away from home” where 
they can feel comfortable and perform to their full potential. The rules and regulations are 
formulated to ensure that the hostel’s property is safeguarded, that students residing in the 
hostel are living in a healthy environment, and that students maintain discipline.
The university provides occupancy of a room on a triple sharing basis separately for boys 
and girls. All the rooms are well equipped with basic amenities. There are both ac and 
non-ac rooms available in the hostels. Every student is allotted with a bed, mattress, study 
table, chair and cupboard.
A student will be responsible for maintaining the hostel property and should use it carefully. 
Student will be liable to pay for any loss or damage caused to the hostel property. In case 
of loss by a group of students, all students involved will be fined. 
Every hostel has hot water facility, mineral water, TV halls and common reading room. 
Dining halls are located in close proximity to the hostels or inside the hostel buildings. Wi-Fi 
facility is available to every student for purposes of academic pursuits. The hostel provides 
laundry services that is available to residential students. 
Student Hostel Committee that will advise about Mess Menu and will be also responsible 
for Hostel night and other general issues of the Hostel. There will be one Proctor for every 
Floor in the Hostel. 
The University authorities reserves the right to terminate a student’s temporary occupancy 
in hostel for deliberate disobedience, non-observance of hostel rules, causing damage to 
person or property, or engaging in antisocial, antinational, or otherwise unlawful actions. 
Hostel Warden(Girls) Ms. Anitha GP 9599042878
Hostel Warden (Boys) Dr. Rupesh Mishra 9716935695
Hostel Warden (Boys) Dr. Anshu Kumar 6394355001
 

===== PAGE 26 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
26
Transport
Transport facility is provided to day scholars from Monday to Friday. The buses operate 
from all the routes of the tri-cities of Kazipet, Hanamkonda and Warangal. The bus service 
is also provided from the neighboring districts such as Karimnagar, Husnabad, Jammikunta 
and Huzurabad. The bus(es) start from the respective starting points at 7:30 AM and leave 
the university at 5:00 PM in the evening.
The daily bus facility can be availed on a chargeable basis. If a student wishes to opt out 
of this service, no refund will be issued for the unused portion of the academic year. Day 
scholars are not allowed to get into the bus for a destination other than mentioned as the 
boarding point
Transport Complaints / Issues: Mr. T. Surendar Contact No: 9177302052
Security
The safety and security of the students on campus is of utmost priority to the university. 
Security guards are deployed round the clock across all the academic blocks, hostels, all 
entry-exit points and key areas. These areas are also under 24x7 monitoring through CCTV 
cameras. 
All the resident students must not leave the campus without completing the out-pass 
process. The students entering the campus after outing are physically frisked and their 
belongings are checked by the security guards to prevent carrying of prohibited items into 
the hostels.
For any concerns contact Mr. K Venkateshwar Rao  Contact No: 9618503127
Personal Vehicles
Personal vehicles of students are not allowed inside the campus. They must be parked 
outside the second gate at the designated space at the students‘ own risk. The university 
will not be responsible for any damage or theft of the vehicle. 
Cycles are allowed in side the campus and students can keep their cycles in the hostel. 
Powered vehicles are not allowed.
Health and Wellness
Health Centre: The University Health Centre has two beds with a nurse and doctor 
available during the day. The university has an arrangement with the Aaditya hospital and 
students are taken to that hospital in case of any emergency in an ambulance stationed in 
the university 24x7.  
For any day to day issues related to health, students should immediately reach out to the 
wellness center.
Wellness Centre Timings: 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM
Nurse: Ms. Pavani  Contact No: 8712615910
Ambulance Driver: Sai Kumar Contact No: 7989738242
Counselling: The University has a counseling center, with a clinical psychologist offering 

===== PAGE 27 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
27


===== PAGE 28 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
28


===== PAGE 29 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
29
counseling services to students. The students are informed about the counseling services 
during the orientation program. Students who wish to avail the services of the Counsellor 
can approach their office directly or can also book an appointment through call/whatsapp 
on the following numbers:
Boys: +91 8341581850    Girls: +91 8341581850
University Library
The university library supports the teaching and research activities of the university by 
providing facilities for general reading through acquisition, organization and dissemination 
of knowledge resources. It provides value added services according to the requirement of 
the users. 
Collection
Spread over an area of 1000 sq.mtrs., our university library is a vast repository of knowledge, 
featuring an extensive collection of books, journals, e-books, e-journals, and multimedia 
resources. The services and operations in the university library are fully computerized. The 
library is also equipped with a digital library section and reference section.
Working Hours:
The Library works on all days of the year expect few holidays of national and social 
importance included in the Academic Calendar:
Monday to Friday: 8:30 AM to 8:30 PM
Saturday & Sunday: 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM
Membership
The enrolment of membership will be extended to all our UG/PG students, research scholars 
and staff of the university. The prescribed membership form can be obtained from the 
circulation counter. The students are provided with a Bar-Coded member ID card for the 
duration of studies at the university. The ID card is not transferable for issue of books.  
OPAC (Online Public Access Catalogue)
The students can search the Bibliographic data viz. Author, Title, Subject, classified no. etc. 
through OPAC of the terminals installed at the Circulation Counters.
Borrowing Privileges
Category No. of Books Period of Loan
UG students 4 One month
PG students 6 One month
Research scholars 6 One month

===== PAGE 30 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
30
WEBOPAC in the university campus:
Students can also access the Bibliographic data of the University library through WEBOPAC 
within the university campus. WEBOPAC link is: http://192.168.30.100/webopac/default.
aspx. 
Mr. Sammi Reddy  Contact No: 0870-2818384
Printing Facility
Students can avail the printing facility from the space dedicated for reprographic facilities 
at a nominal cost.
Location and Timimgs: Beside of Block I, 9:00 AM to 05:30 PM 
Mr. T. Surender  Contact No: 9177302052
ATM Facility
The Canara Bank ATM facility is located at the entrance of the main gate of the university.
SR Academic & Administration Portal (SRAAP)
The university’s web portal, called SRAAP. Students have the ability to revise their profile 
information, including their parent’s contact numbers and other necessary data. Additionally, 
students can review academic regulations, check the academic calendar, and access a list 
of holidays.
Furthermore, students are able to enroll in the courses they plan to study for the semester. 
They can also monitor their attendance, Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE), and End-
Term Examination (ETE) marks.
Moreover, students have the opportunity to provide feedback on their course faculty and 
submit grievances. Additionally, students can check their final results.
The daily attendance report, mid marks and other relevant information is sent to the parents 
through SMS.
Contact No: 8074253480 for any assistance
Help Desk
The helpdesk acts as the primary level of support for the students and functions till 5:30 
PM in the campus. All certificates, fee receipts, medical assistance or any other student 
related Services are taken care at the help desk. The students can reach out to the help 
desk located at the main office.
Mr. J. Sambamurthy Contact No: 9989899611

===== PAGE 31 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
31
Batch Representatives
Batch representatives will be elected at the start of every semester. A batch consists of 
approximately 30 students and each batch is represented by an elected batch representative. 
These batch representatives will be the voice of the students of their batch. The views or 
grievances of the fellow classmates are raised by the batch representatives in the meeting 
with the Dean/Vice-chancellor conducted once in a semester usually mid-semester.
Centre for Student Services and Placements (CSSP)
The CSSP coordinates the placement activities at SRU. The center ensures smooth functioning 
of placement activities on campus and facilitates training activities of the students. It offers 
all interested and eligible students the best support in getting placed in leading companies.
The CSSP supports students in identifying their interests and strengths, and plans 
appropriately to justify their professional needs. SRU students are trained in niche 
technologies that separate them from the ordinary, leading them to a successful career. 
For any queries Mr. Gurcharan  Contact No:  85209 54128 at SRiX, 1 st Floor
Placement Training
The university possesses a full-fledged Placement cell that continuously monitors the 
employment opportunities available in various domains and arrange the campus interviews 
for the eligible students both at Under Graduate and Post Graduate level. Our CSSP offers 
career development program for the students who are aspiring to enter the corporate 
world and introduce them to the prospective employers according to their aspirations and 
background. 
Skill Development Courses
The CSSP is offering various skill development courses. This center is working to enhance 
the skill component among the students. Various courses related to improving employment 
opportunities are offered by the centre. Students shall enroll for the courses upon call for 
registration by the center.
Internships
Many Industries and start-ups are providing internship opportunities to our students in 
the summer break and their final semester. CSSP reaches out to potential employers from 
different sectors to cater to the student internships. The interns are thus exposed to latest 
technologies and also get a feel of corporate working culture, while they begin building 
their very own corporate network.
Portfolio Creation
CSSP provides assistance to students to create their portfolios. This portfolio shall be a 
collection of all skills, accomplishments, experiences and attributes. highlighting the 
students best works, certifications and all other important achievements.

===== PAGE 32 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
32
SR Innovation Exchange (SRiX)
SR Innovation Exchange (SRiX) is a DST sponsored Technology Business Incubator. SRiX 
brings entrepreneurs, mentors, researchers, and academicians together to create an 
inspiring ecosystem to transform ideas into business entities. SRiX intends to be an active 
catalyst for the growth of the startup ecosystem and help Startups evolve & grow into 
mature businesses. It has State of Art Infrastructure consisting of:       
i. Design & Rapid Prototyping facilities.
ii.  Conference Halls/ Meeting Rooms.
iii.  Video-conferencing facilities.
iv. Air-conditioned Co-working spaces with Wi-Fi.
Support provided:
i. Idea Valuation/ Validation. 
ii. End-to-end product development support.
iii. Incubation and Acceleration Support.
iv. Mentoring Support: Branding, marketing, Go-to-market, Business Expansion, 
Technology, and commercialisation.
v. Legal Support: Company incorporation and documentation, Intellectual Property 
(IP), Patenting, and Regulatory Compliance. 
vi. Funding Support: Seed capital, Grants, Angel Investors, Venture Capitalists, investor 
connect.
vii. Financial Services: Accounting, Filings, Valuations etc.
viii. Connections & Networking: Mentors, investors, industry partners, Government, 
Higher Education institutions connections.
ix. Human Resources: Hiring of interns and fresh grad, team management, partners fit.
For any queries Mr. Prashanth  Contact No: 8008025400
Mentoring and Advising
Mentoring at SR University is a cornerstone of our commitment to fostering a supportive 
and enriching learning environment, guiding students towards academic excellence, and 
facilitating their holistic development for future career endeavors. As an integral part of 
our academic ecosystem, each student is assigned a dedicated mentor upon joining the 
University, forming the bedrock of a personalized and impactful mentoring program.
Upon enrollment, students are introduced to their mentors during the induction program, 
establishing a vital connection that is crucial for their academic and personal growth. This 
mentorship is designed to extend throughout the entirety of the student’s academic journey 
at SRU. It is through this structured mentor-mentee relationship that students receive 
guidance, support, and encouragement, transcending traditional academic boundaries.

===== PAGE 33 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
33
Student Responsibilities
Students are urged to actively engage with their mentors, recognizing the mentorship as 
a collaborative process. Regular communication, proactive involvement in mentor-mentee 
meetings, and seeking guidance when needed are essential elements for a fruitful mentoring 
relationship.
At SR University, we consider mentoring as an indispensable aspect of our commitment to 
nurturing well-rounded, successful individuals. We encourage every student to embrace 
this mentorship opportunity and utilize it as a foundation for academic excellence, personal 
growth, and a successful future career.
We emphasize the importance of staying connected with your mentor and proactively 
reaching out for academic advice, career guidance, or any other support you may require. 
Mentorship at SR University is not just a service; it’s a partnership for your success.
Social Media
SR University is active on social media and is looking forward to connecting with you. You 
can follow the college on Instagram, LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter. You’ll discover the 
latest college updates and highlights featuring fellow students, alumni, faculty, and staff.
Sports and Games 
SR University encourages sports and recreational activities with a firm belief that a sound 
mind resides in a sound body. The vast campus provides number of fields for different 
sports and games. The main objective is to provide initiatives to encourage the growth and 
development of students in secure environment in order to develop fitness, team building 
and leadership opportunities. 
The Department of Physical Education plays an important role in a student’s life on campus.
It is headed by a Physical Director and assisted by individual coaches for football, volleyball, 
cricket, basketball, etc. The Department aims to provide the students with wide range of 
sport recreation and leisure activities for students, staff and faculty.
The facilities available on campus are Cricket/ Football/ Volleyball/ Basketball/ Badminton/  
Tabletennis/ Kabaddi/ Throw Ball/ Carroms/ Chess, Athletics and a fully equipped gymnasium. 
Out Door Games: 
Beside SRiX Block
LinkedIn:     https://www.linkedin.com/school/sr-university/  
Instagram:   https://www.instagram.com/sr_university/  
Facebook:    https://www.facebook.com/sruniversityindia  
Twitter:       https://twitter.com/sr_university  
Snapchat:    https://www.snapchat.com/add/sr_university


===== PAGE 34 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
34
Basket Ball Court / Volley Ball Court / Kabaddi Court / Throw Ball Court / Kho-Kho Court
Beside SRiX Block: Badminton Court  
Block-III Back Side:
Athletics: 400Mtrs running track / Football Ground / Cricket Practice Nets
Indoor Games:
Block -1 Back side sheds: Table Tennis / Carroms / Chess / Gymnasium Hall
Dr. P. Srinivas Goud  Contact No: 9949279800
National Service Scheme (NSS)
The institution has launched units of NSS wings. These units take up various community 
development service oriented activities like programs on road safety, blood donation, 
plantation, awareness programs etc. in and around the region. These units aim at developing 
social and civic responsibilities amongst young students. 
Dr. K. Ravinder  Contact No: 9912782872
National Cadet Corps (NCC)
The National Cadet Corps at SR University was brought up in the long stretch of September 
2020 under the alliance of 1(T) Compo (Tech) Regt. NCC, Warangal Group with a strength 
of 160 cadets (Company). The aspirants of 1st year engineering students of university can 
enroll, if they have the necessary qualification models determined in the NCC Act. The boy 
cadets are enrolled into Senior Division (SD) and the girl cadets are enrolled into Senior 
Wing (SW). 
NCC seeks to reinforce in students a spirit of nationalism and national identity. It also 
improves physical activity and encourages all round character in the students. The NCC 
provides cadets with military training in which students gain knowledge of the forces.
NCC is a voluntary organization AND ITS activities carried out by cadets at the university level 
are diverse and aimed at fostering leadership, discipline, and a sense of social responsibility. 
The activities undertaken by NCC cadets at the university level includes institutional training, 
camp training, Leadership Training, Adventure Activities, Social service and Community 
Development, Cultural Events, Educational and Awareness Programs.
Mr. T. Haribabu  Contact No: 8810415979
Stationery Store
To support the professional needs of students, a stationery store is available adjacent to 
Block-I. This store offers office supplies, including pens, pencils, notebooks, files, and other 
stationery essentials. It also provides photocopy and printing services.
Timings: 9:00 am to 5:30 pm
Mr. G. Rajeshwar Reddy  Contact No: 9849014127


===== PAGE 35 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
35


===== PAGE 36 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
36
Cafeteria
SR University has a spacious two storeyed cafeteria with modern equipment and a hygienic 
environment providing quality food thus catering to the needs of students and staff. The 
cafeteria has an area of 710 sft and accommodates 200 students. It is open for the students 
from 8:30 AM to 6 PM. There is a wide variety of North-Indian and South-Indian cuisine and 
the students enjoy the healthy nutritious food served at the cafeteria.
Tasty Treat        near 2nd block,  
Meet and Eat    near behind 1st block.  
Bharat foods      near 3rd block
Timings: 9:00 AM  to 7:00 PM
Open Door Policy
The university adheres to an “Open Door Policy,” encouraging all students’ to voice their 
suggestions, concerns, or feedback regarding the university’s operations and progress. 
Under this policy, students’ can approach any office bearer, including the Vice-chancellor, 
through various means of communication, such as in-person meetings, emails, or scheduled 
appointments. The university recognizes that open and transparent communication is 
essential for fostering a collaborative and supportive work environment. The feedback will 
be received in a constructive and positive manner, with the aim of continuously improving 
the university’s functioning and enhancing its overall progress. 
Feedback
The feedback from students is periodically collected by the office of the Dean (Academics). 
Online feedback system is in place to take the feedback on academic support and other 
facilities of the campus.
Students/Parents/Alumni can share their feedback and suggestions anytime at 
feedback@sru.edu.in.  


===== PAGE 37 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
37
Alumni Connect
Alumni Affairs at SR University, formerly S R Engineering College, serves as the vital link 
between the institution and its graduates, fostering a lasting connection beyond graduation. 
It comprises programs, services, and events aimed at keeping alumni connected and 
engaged. This ongoing relationship reflects the shared experiences and growth within the 
SR University community.
To actively participate, alumni are encouraged to attend reunions, engage in networking 
events, utilize career services, and contribute to the institution’s success. Involvement not 
only enhances personal experiences but also enriches the educational journey for current 
and future students.
As you begin your academic journey, remember that your association with SR University 
extends beyond campus years—it’s a lifelong partnership. The institution looks forward to 
celebrating your achievements, supporting your endeavors, and welcoming you into the 
proud and dynamic community of SR University alumni.
Alumni Services and Resources:
As a valued member of our alumni community, you have access to a range of services and 
resources designed to support your continued success and maintain a strong connection 
with SR University. We are committed to providing you with opportunities for personal and 
professional growth, networking, and ongoing engagement. Explore the array of services 
and resources available to you:
• Career Services like Job Postings, and Career Counseling: 
• Networking Opportunities like Alumni Events, and Online Networking            Platforms.
• Benefits and Discounts like Library Access, and Continued Education.
• Mentorship Programs like Connect with Mentors, and Become a Mentor.
• Alumni Chapters like Local and Regional Chapters, and Chapter Events.
• Communication Channels like Alumni Newsletters, and Social Media Groups.
• Recognition and Awards like Alumni Achievements, and Nominate Peers.
• Volunteer Opportunities like Event Support, and Advisory Boards.
• Access to SR University Facilities like Facility Use, Fundraising, and Support the 
Institution. 
Portal Registration Link: https://alumni.sru.edu.in/user/signup.dz
Contact Details: G. Sunil Reddy, Associate Dean, Alumni Affairs
Contact Number: 9676561828
E- Mail id: assocdean.alumni@sru.edu.in 


===== PAGE 38 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
38
Student Activities and Events
Student Clubs
SRU clubs help the student community to develop talents, interests and passion. Students 
are encouraged to participate in atleast one club every semester and expand their interests 
and skills.
The main objective of various clubs is to identify the potential of every student and to 
facilitate them in achieving their academic goals through activities in these clubs. Open to 
all students, the clubs plan events and activities throughout the year. These clubs enrich 
the social, cultural and academic experience of students. It provides an exclusive platform 
for different dimension of learning, networking and socializing outside of the classroom. 
The following clubs are active for the academic year 2023-24:
Sl.No. Club Name Level
1 Garden Club University Level
2 Organic Farming Club University Level
3 Yoga Club University Level
4 Master Communicators Club University Level
5 Painting And Sketching University Level
6 Community Service Center University Level
7 Martial Arts Club University Level
8 Adventure Club University Level
9 Hiking Club University Level
10 Cultural Club University Level
11 Sports Club University Level
12 Drama & Theatre Club University Level
13 Photography & Movie Making University Level
14 Dance & Music Club University Level
15 Robotics Club ME
16 SAE Club ME
17 Renewable Energy Club ME
18 CAD/CAM ME
19 Coding Club CS&AI
20 Data Science Club CS&AI
21 Cyber Security Club CS&AI
22 AIML Club CS&AI
23 SANKHYA CS&AI
24 ElectrAIfy Club EEE
25 Simulation Club EEE

===== PAGE 39 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
39
26 Electrical Engineering Association (EEA) EEE
27 Byte Optimizers Club ECE
28 Intelligence Ignite Club ECE
29 Socio Tech Innovative Club ECE
30 Tech Connectors Club ECE
31 Marketing Club Business
32 HR Club Business
33 Finance Club Business
34 AGRIGYAN SOA
35 Indian Concrete Institute (ICI) Students Chapter CE
36 ACCE - Association Of Consulting Civil Engineer 
Students Chapter CE
37 Society Of Civil Engineers SRU CE
Club Name Description
Cultural Club Will celebrate all the cultural festivals. 
Sports Club To develop sports skills and sportsman spirit.
Physical fitness, physiological and psychological abilities.
Moral ethics and social awareness.
Coordination and cooperation.
Develop leadership qualities, tea work and overall discipline.
Garden Club Our primary objective is to restore a sustainable ecosystem.
To promote interest in and knowledge of horticulture, gardening and 
garden therapy
To encourage beautification of college.
Expand love of gardening and floral design which encourages active 
participation in civic.
Martial Arts Club Becoming Active, Fit and Healthy
Gaining Self Confidence and Self-Respect
Learn To Offend and Defend
Focus, Responsibility & Team Work
Master Communicators To provide a platform for student participants to demonstrate an 
understanding of communication in diverse contexts – interpersonal, small 
group, public and organizational.
To help participants exhibit enhanced analytical, critical and performance 
competencies that will assist students in participating effectively in inter-
collegiate events or contests.

===== PAGE 40 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
40
Painting & Sketching Painting and Sketching practices develop new ways of thinking, seeing, and 
creativity of students.
Building confidence of students through exercises that help you explore 
different types of painting techniques.
Painting and sketching extend students’ ideas of possible sources for their 
paintings. Students are introduced to additional painting techniques, as well 
as to a diverse range of historical and contemporary artist’s practices. It 
turns, students to develop a greater sense of creating “their own work.”
Students are encouraged to develop an area of personal painting and 
sketching skill informed both by their own enthusiasms and interests . It 
awakens the self thinking capability and improve the designing of thought 
in the way of innovation
Drama & Theatre Club Self Expression: Students will become more expressive in thoughts by way 
of their act and impressions
Confidence: Students improve levels of confidence by shedding away the 
shyness by performing in front of huge audience by giving off their best
Drama & Theatre Club Socio-culture: Students can make new friends and improves social 
interaction and enhance their creativity by coming out of practical life and 
enter into the world of imaginations.
Fun: Totally it creates a huge positive impact on once career.
Community Service Club Identify the needs and problems of the community and involve them in 
problem solving process;
Develop among themselves a sense of social and civic responsibility;
Utilize their knowledge in finding practical solution to individual and 
community problems;
Develop competence required for group-living and sharing of 
responsibilities;
Gain skills in mobilizing community participation;
Acquire leadership qualities and democratic attitude;
Develop capacity to meet emergencies and natural disaster and practise 
national integration and social harmony
Photography & Movie 
Making
To motivate students to exhibit their talents in photography and video 
making.
To encourage and see how student compile and edit pictures and get a 
strong visual aesthetic.
To express their taught with an emphasis on perceptual, technical and 
artistic skills.
To explore and explain their creativeness, to recognize their career 
opportunities.
To look into their views of making photography in both natural and artificial, 
means and see how they manipulate and control an artistic vision

===== PAGE 41 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
41
Yoga Club To create an atmosphere of confidence, enthusiasm and non-
competitiveness, where everyone can succeed
To support the physical and emotional health and wellness of students and 
teachers.
To enhance focus, concentration, comprehension and memory.
To ease anxiety and tension (such as pre-test or performance jitters).
To improve posture, writing muscles while preparing to sit comfortably.
To have opportunities for reflection, patience and insight, reducing 
impulsivity and reactivity.
Dance & Music Club Study and practice methodologies for translating written text into live 
performance
Learn the vocabulary and practice methods of respectful critique and 
evaluation
To strengthen students creative skills in live performance through the study 
of craft and technique
Develop a multifaceted physicality through training in dance techniques
Integrate an understanding of cultural context into creative and scholarly 
research
Demonstrate clear and convincing academic writing in the field
Innowiz Club Equip the students with Managerial skill-set.
Motivate students to build teamwork culture.
Stimulate the critical thinking abilities.
Develop the communication skills.
Groom the students to sculpt their personalities.
Transform the introverts to extroverts by helping them overcome their 
stage fear.

===== PAGE 42 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
42
Student Clubs @ School of Computer Science and Artificial 
Intelligence
Club Name Description
Coding Club In today’s rapidly changing environment, programming skills are 
essential tools that can be utilized and incorporated into various 
fields and domains. Hence, it becomes essential to equip young 
minds with such skills. Coding Club aims to establish a coding 
culture on campus, reaching every student passionate about 
coding. The club’s motto is to Create-Optimize-Debug-Execute.
Data Science 
Club
Data science is a powerful tool that can be used to solve some 
of the world’s most pressing problems. We want to empower our 
students to use their skills to positively impact the world. We 
also strive to create a community where students can connect, 
share ideas, and collaborate on projects.
Cyber Security 
Club
The Cyber Security Club is a student-run club with the goal 
of providing outside-of-class activities relevant to the industry. 
Attendees will leave with valuable experience proven to be 
useful during interviews and jobs. The club is open to everybody 
and no matter what experience level or major you are. Our goal 
is to expand our knowledge of cybersecurity and information 
security through hands-on experience and direct interaction 
with professionals in the field.
AIML Club Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Club helps to foster 
skills envisage the real world problems and attempts to upskill the 
talent and prepare for the Millennial break-through technologies 
which require a thorough understanding and grasp of various AI 
and ML driven devices ubiquitously
SANKHYA SANKHYA is a club for students interested in mathematics and 
computing that offers a variety of extracurricular activities to 
further explore mathematical sciences. It aims to bring together 
individuals with a passion for mathematics, promote student 
collaboration, and expose them to educational and career 
opportunities. It hosts academic and social events all year long 
such as celebrations of National Mathematics Day and Pi-Day, 
Mathematics Olympiad etc.

===== PAGE 43 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
43
Student Clubs @ Department of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE)
Club Name Description
ElectrAIfy Club
 ElectrAIfy Club is an AI Club for Electrical Engineering. It is 
a dynamic and inclusive community of students passionate 
about AI, Machine Learning, and its applications in Electrical 
Engineering. This club aims to provide a platform for students 
to learn, collaborate, and innovate in the rapidly evolving field 
of AI applications in Electrical Engineering.
Simulation Club
 The Simulation Club is a dynamic and innovative organization which 
serves as a platform for students, enthusiasts, and professionals 
alike, who share a common passion for simulation technologies 
and their application in the field of electrical engineering.
The club’s primary mission is to foster a vibrant community that 
promotes hands-on learning, creativity, and collaboration through 
simulation-based projects. By utilizing cutting-edge software and 
tools, the club aims to deepen participants’ understanding of 
complex electrical systems and enhance problem-solving skills.
Electrical Engineering 
Association (EEA)
The Electrical Engineering Association (EEA) of SR University 
serves as a place of community for students to discuss, learn and 
develop technical and professional skills among the electrical 
engineering students. Members of the EEA are offered with a 
range of programs and activities such as seminars, workshops, 
technical quizzes, poster presentations, certifications, hackathons, 
project competitions and exposition. The EEA is supported by 
both internal and external experts who assist the students in 
strategizing and organizing activities that will help them enhance 
their knowledge and skills in Electrical Engineering.
Student Clubs @ Department of 
Electronics & Communication Engineering (ECE)
Club Name Description
Byte 
Optimizers 
Club
Byte Optimizers strives to encourage interest and knowledge in the Internet 
of Things (IoT). The club brings collectively students who are excited about 
emerging technologies, smart devices, and the potential of IoT to transform 
multiple sectors and daily life. Workshops, skill development, and invited 
talks will be among the activities offered by this club.
Intelligence
Ignite Club
The Intelligence Ignite club amalgamates the most stimulating aspects 
of artificial intelligence (AI) and the cutting-edge field of Electronics and 
Communication Engineering (ECE). The club’s goal is to bridge the gap 
between AI and ECE by creating a collaborative environment in which students 
with diverse interests can investigate the synergy between these two fields. 
Intelligence Ignite’s activities will include guest lectures, workshops, and 
tutorials focusing on integrating AI techniques into ECE applications.

===== PAGE 44 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
44
Socio Tech 
Innovative 
Club
Socio Tech Innovative aims to encourage social innovation through the 
innovative use of technology and interdisciplinary approaches. By leveraging 
the power of technology and innovative thinking, the club hopes to address 
societal challenges and have a positive impact on local communities and 
beyond. This club’s activities include ideation and brainstorming sessions, 
workshops, and invited talks.
Tech 
Connectors 
Club
The Tech Connectors Club brings collectively students who are passionate 
about wireless communication and networking. The club focuses on the 
exciting world of wireless communication, including mobile networks, 5G, 
and beyond. It provides an opportunity for students to learn more about 
this rapidly changing field, exchange ideas, and gain practical knowledge of 
wireless communication systems. Wireless Technology Workshops, invited 
talks on wireless communication, and career opportunities are among the 
activities of this club.
Student Clubs @ Department Mechanical Engineering (ME)
Club Name Description
SAE Collegiate Club The SAE Collegiate Club aims at providing the students of 
Engineering with learning facilities comparable to world-class 
standards for designing and manufacturing automobiles, imparting 
knowledge to design vehicles with lesser pollution and better 
safety standards to meet the norms and expose them to the latest 
research, development and techniques so as to cater to the growing 
needs of the industries and to mold the students as good citizens 
of our country.
Robotics Club Write the program to run the Robot and Differentiate various 
assembly languages.
Build a Robotic manipulator for mechanical applications.
Conduct Guest Lectures by experts on latest technologies of 
Robotics
Participate in various competitions to be held all over India to excel 
in this area.
Renewable Energy  
Sources Club
The club is dedicated to encouraging students to actively 
participate in renewable energy activities, raising awareness about 
the benefits of utilizing renewable energy sources. It also involves 
the development of course activities tailored to employment 
opportunities in industries and the renewable energy sector. This 
club-centric approach aims to equip students with both knowledge 
and practical skills for meaningful contributions to the field of 
sustainable energy.

===== PAGE 45 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
45
CAD/CAM CLUB Join the club to delve into CAD/CAM software, mastering 
the creation of 2D/3D drawings essential for mechanical 
applications. Club members actively develop intricate 
3-D models, gaining hands-on experience in practical 
design. Expert-led guest lectures on the latest CAD/CAM 
technologies provide valuable insights. As part of the club, 
students are encouraged to participate in various nationwide 
competitions, offering a platform to showcase and excel in 
the dynamic field of CAD/CAM across India.
Student Clubs @ Department Civil Engineering (CE)
Club Name Description
Indian Concrete Institute 
(ICI) Students Chapter
1. ICI student chapter needs a minimum of 30 student 
members. Or 50% of students strength of the department.
2. ICI student chapter shall undertake to organize at least 
two technical lectures by eminent personalities from the 
construction industry in each semester.
3. Organise technical report writing competitions among 
students at least once in a year.
4. Undertake technical visits to construction sites and write 
reports on their visits at least once in a year.
5. Any other technical activity like exposition of new building 
material, etc., as an option.
ACCE - Association Of 
Consulting Civil Engineer  
Students Chapter
1. ACCE student chapter will endeavor to bridge the gap 
between academia and the industry. ACCE has evolved, 
several well-structured proactive programs to upgrade the 
skills of CE undergraduate students.
2. Student Mentoring Program of ACCE is a well-structured 
Skill development training program aimed at increasing 
the employ ability quotient of students who undertake this 
program.
Society Of Civil Engineers 
SRU
1.Organize at least two technical lectures by eminent 
personalities from the construction industry in each semester.
2.Organise one UG-level Technical Event per year.
3.Organise two Industrial visits to bridge the gap between 
academia and industry.
4.Exposing young civil engineers to the challenges faced in 
the field.

===== PAGE 46 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
46
Student Clubs @ School of Agriculture (SOA)
Club Name Description
AGRIGYAN To promote agriculture education and create a platform to 
learn new aspects of agriculture
To facilitate the interdisciplinary/ interdepartmental 
knowledge exchange
To enhance student-farmer relationships
Promoting organic, sustainable, and eco-friendly farming
Providing an opportunity for the students to explore and 
develop skills in leadership, teamwork and personality 
development 
Student Clubs @ School of Business Management (SOB)
Club Name Description
Marketing Club The club’s main objective is to foster an environment 
that encourages creativity, innovation, and professional 
development in the field of marketing.
This club will organize various activities such as workshops, 
industrial visits, competitions, student projects, and market 
research.
Finance Club The club aims to enhance students' understanding 
of the intricacies within the financial sector, fostering 
an environment that encourages study, contribution, 
participation, organization, and networking with industry 
professionals. Events organized by the club include 
workshops, seminars, and a guest speaker series, providing 
members with opportunities to explore financial topics and 
trends. Additionally, the club facilitates networking events, 
fostering connections between members and finance 
professionals, as well as encouraging collaboration among 
students passionate about finance.
HR Club The primary objective of the club is to shape students into 
future people managers, focusing on nurturing their potential 
for achieving excellence with a strong ethical foundation. 
The club envisions organizing various events, including 
team-building activities, problem-solving exercises, and 
other HR-related activities.

===== PAGE 47 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
47
Freshers Party
The Freshers party is hosted by the second year students to welcome their juniors to the 
university. The second year students organize various fun filled games, events, performances 
etc. to break the ice and show case their talents. The freshers and their seniors will get to 
know one another and make friends for life.
Farewell Party
The farewell party is hosted by the junior batch students to the outgoing batch of students. 
The students actively take part in dancing, singing, playing games, and other fun filled 
activities. They put lot of efforts to make the last days in the university memorable to their 
seniors.
Sparkrill
Sparkrill, a three day annual cultural festival is the most awaited fest conducted by the 
students of SR University, Warangal. This fest showcases number of events in the fields 
of art, literature, drama, dance, music, quizzing, photography and painting. Sparkrill also 
conducts concerts during the three days of Spree, known Pronites. Famous musicians are 
invited to close each day of the fest with a bang. They are aided by the student council 
themselves and a faculty advisor chosen by the administration to assist them in their tasks.
SRU Policies
Conduct on Campus
SR University believes in providing students with the freedom and knowledge to support 
their decisions, and it trusts them to act in their own best interests as well as the interests 
of the university. The university then anticipates that students will exhibit accountability 
and self-control. The idea is to instill a sense of ownership so that this conduct becomes 
second nature. This includes respecting the rights of others to freedom of speech and 
making appropriate use of the resources at your disposal. 
Students come from a variety of origins, viewpoints, genders, locations, faiths, cultures, 
and experiences. The success of the SRU community is greatly influenced by inclusivity. 
Everyone attending the university is expected to respect and be aware of diversity. The 
intention is to create a diversified atmosphere which is beneficial to everyone. Students 
shall dress decently when in public places and are cautioned that in the era of fast internet 
and high definition cameras, their pictures and videos can fall in wrong hands and create 
unpleasant consequences.
Student Grievance Redressal Cell
Student Grievance Redressal cell functions to address the grievances of the students in the 
campus. 
Students shall write about their grievances to stu.grievance@sru.edu.in  or call to the help 
desk number. The grievance will be redressed as earlier as possible based on the nature of 
the issue.
Mr. J. Sambamurthy  Contact No: 9989899611

===== PAGE 48 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
48


===== PAGE 49 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
49
Usage of Mobile Phones
In the information age, the university understands the significance of the mobile phone 
usage. But students are informed to self-restrict the usage of mobile phone by avoiding its 
usage in classrooms, laboratories, examinations halls. Disciplinary action will be taken if 
improper usage of mobile phone in the campus and it may also lead to confiscating of the 
mobile phone. 
Anti-Ragging Policy
Ragging is a criminal and non-bailable offense. Ragging or abetment of ragging in any form 
is strictly prohibited within the premises of the University, including its hostels, departments, 
institutions, schools, colleges, constituent units, centers, campus grounds, and any part of 
the SR University group institutions, as well as on public transport systems. Any violation 
will be dealt with in accordance with the regulations, directives, and guidelines, including:
- Supreme Court Guidelines and 
- UGC Regulations, 2009. 
The university has constituted an anti-ragging cell, headed by the Dean (Student Affairs) 
along with committee members from all schools and hostel wardens. The cell ensures that 
the freshers are protected from the menace of ragging. The cell deploys faculty in key areas 
such as hostels, canteen, bus stops etc. to prevent ragging and also ensures that action will 
be taken against those who indulge in such activities.
The students can call the anti-ragging cell at stu.antiraggingcell@sru.edu.in or help desk to 
register any complaint or can directly reach out to the Office of Student Affairs.
Dr. A.V.V. Sudhakar  Contact No: 9000708123
Sexual Harassment Policy
SRU is committed to providing a safe and respectful environment for all members of its 
academic community, including staff and students. This Sexual Harassment Policy aims to 
prevent and address any form of sexual harassment within the university setting. It applies 
to all staff, students, and visitors and reflects our commitment to fostering a culture of 
respect, dignity, and inclusivity.
Any student who experiences or witnesses sexual harassment is strongly encouraged to 
report the incident promptly to the appropriate authorities. Reporting can be done through 
multiple channels, including:
• Head of the Department or Dean of the School
• Dean (Faculty Affairs)
• Women Empowerment Cell of the University 
Reports can be made verbally or in writing and will be treated with confidentiality. The 
university is committed to conducting a thorough, impartial, and timely investigation of all 
complaints of sexual harassment.
If an investigation confirms that sexual harassment has occurred, appropriate disciplinary 


===== PAGE 50 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
50


===== PAGE 51 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
51
action will be taken against the perpetrator, which may include but is not limited to:
• Counseling 
• Formal warning 
• Suspension or Expulsion
• Legal consequences
Prevention of Sexual Harassment in workplace
SRU adheres to the POSH act of UGC, recognizing that sexual harassment is more prevalent 
among female staff and students, Regulation 3 (d) of the UGC POSH regulation mandates 
prompt action by Higher Educational University’s in the wake of any such harassment, 
the full regulations are available at https://7203627_UGC_regulations-harassment.pdf, SRU 
students and  its staff members must adhere to these practices as mentioned thereof
Cell/Center Staff Coordinator Mail Id Contact No.
Student Help Desk Ms. Divya helpdesk@sru.edu.in 9701177036
Examination Cell Mr. K. Kiran Babu examcell@sru.edu.in 9908336336
CSSP Mr. D. Sridhar stu.cssp@sru.edu.in 9000966994
Student Grievance Cell Dr. D. Rajababu stu.grievance@sru.edu.in 9949501190
Student counseling and 
psychological centre
Ms. Swapna stu.counseling@sru.edu.in 7207672300 (G)
7207362300 (B)
Anti Ragging Cell Mr. A. Rajeshwar Rao stu.antiraggingcell@sru.edu.in 9948533654
Transport Mr. A. Keerthi Reddy transport@sru.edu.in 9640606408
Sports Dr. P. Srinivas Goud stu.sports@sru.edu.in 9949279800
Finance Ms. Sunitha stu.finance@sru.edu.in 9912654505
Administration Mr. T. Surender 9177302052
Program Coordinator SoA pc.soa@sru.edu.in 9515980884
SoB pc.sob@sru.edu.in
SoCS&AI pc.csai@sru.edu.in 9100208378
SoE pc.soe@sru.edu.in 8106156408
Office of Research pc.research@sru.edu.in 9949445275
Girls Hostel Ms. Anitha GP stu.girlshostel@sru.edu.in 9599042878
Boys Hostel Dr. Rupesh Mishra stu.boyshostel@sru.edu.in 9716935695
Students shall reach out for any queries or assistance to the following  

===== PAGE 52 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
52
Academic Regulations 
The regulations are applicable to the 2023-24 and 2022-23 Academic batches
Terminology
Academic Council: The Academic Council is the principal academic body of the University 
and is responsible for the maintenance of standards of instruction, education, and examination 
within the University, subject to the provisions of the act, statutes, ordinances, regulations, 
and rules. Academic Council is an authority as per University Grants Commission (UGC) 
regulation and it has the right to take decisions on all academic matters including academic 
research.
Academic Year: This is the period comprising of two regular semesters i.e., Odd  Semester 
and Even Semester. In addition to the regular semesters, there may be summer / winter term.
Audit Course: It is a noncredit course of study.
Backlog Course: A course is a backlog course if the student has obtained a grade (R / F )
Basic Sciences: The foundation courses in the areas of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, 
Biology are offered in this category.
Board of Studies: The Board of Studies (BoS) is a body as defined in the UGC regulations, 
constituted by Vice-chancellor for each of the department separately. The functions of BoS 
include framing the content of various courses, reviewing, and updating the content from 
time to time, introducing latest programs etc.
Branch of Study: An area of study or a specified program (like Computer Science Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering etc.).
Capstone / Industry Project: Course that a student must undergo during final year which 
involves the student to undertake a research, startup or design, which is carefully planned to 
achieve a particular aim. It is a credit-based course.
Career Readiness Elective is a course that focuses on developing students’ verbal and 
aptitude skills to enhance their preparedness for future careers.
Certificate Course: This course makes a student gain firsthand expertise and skills required 
for development in each area.
Change of Branch: Transfer from one’s branch of study to the other branch (e.g., change 
from B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering to B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering).
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE):  
Continuous assessments used to evaluate 
student learning, acquired skills, and academic 
attainment during a course.
Course: A course is a subject offered by the 
University for learning in a particular semester.
Course Code: Each course is identified by a 
unique course code depicting the department / 
school offering the course and the level of the 
course.


===== PAGE 53 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
53
Course Outcomes: The measurable statements that state what students are expected to 
learn in a course.
Credit: Every course has a certain number of credits assigned to it depending upon 
the nature and importance of the course. The number of ‘Contact Hours’ in a week of a 
particular course determines its credit value. One credit is equivalent to one lecture/tutorial 
hour per week or two hours per week of self- learning/ practical/ project/ field work during 
a semester.
Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a student for course(s) undertaken 
at another institution/ University.
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA): It is a measure of the cumulative performance 
of a student over all the completed semesters. The CGPA is the ratio of total credit points 
secured by a student in various courses in all semesters and the sum of the total credits of 
all courses in all the semesters. It is expressed up to two decimal places.
Curriculum: Curriculum is broadly defined as the totality of student experiences that  
occur in the educational process. It incorporates the planned sequence of instruction, 
instructional content, materials, resources, and processes for evaluating the attainment of 
Program Educational Objectives.
Degree: A student who fulfills all the program requirements is eligible to receive a degree.
Degree with Specialization: A student who fulfills the entire program requirements of 
the discipline and successfully completes a specified set of professional elective courses in 
a specialized area is eligible to receive a degree with specialization.
Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant curricular and co-curricular 
activities, involving both teaching and non-teaching staff and other resources.
Detention in a course: Student who does not obtain minimum prescribed attendance in 
a course shall be detained in that course.
Dropping from the Semester: A student who does not want to register for the semester 
should do so in writing before commencement of the semester.
Dual Degree: A dual degree program means that a student can pursue two different 
degrees from either the same university or two different universities or even from two 
different countries but at the same time. 
Elective Course: A course that can be chosen from a set of courses. An elective can be 
Program Elective, Open Elective and Specialization Elective.
Engineering Sciences: The courses belonging to basic evolutionary aspects of engineering 
from Mechanical Sciences, Electrical Sciences, Civil, Computing etc.
Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the academic work done by the student 
in the courses. It is done through a combination of continuous in-semester assessment and 
end semester examinations.
Grade: It is an index of the performance of the students in a said course. Grades are 
denoted by alphabets like A, B, C, D etc. In case of School of Agriculture, the grades are 
denoted by Division I, II etc.

===== PAGE 54 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
54
Grade Point: It is a numerical weight allotted to each letter grade on a 10 - point scale.
Hobbies, co-curricular, and extra-curricular elective course is refer to activities 
that students partici-pate. These activities may include sports, clubs, music, theater, and 
more. Participation in these activi-ties can help students develop new skills, build social 
connections, and enhance their overall personal growth and development.
Honours Degree: A student who fulfills all the program requirements of the discipline 
and successfully completes a specified set of additional courses within the same program is 
eligible to receive an Honors degree.
Liberal Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Elective is course in the fields of liberal 
arts, humanities, and social sciences. This elective allows students to explore diverse 
disciplines such as literature, phi-losophy, history, sociology, and psychology.
Make-up Test: An additional test conducted to students who scored less than 50% of the 
marks in the Mid Term Examination or who missed the exam due to genuine reasons
Mini project: Mini Project is a credit-based course that a student must undergo during 
academic term as per the curriculum, which involves the student to explore new things 
belonging to their interest within their program area.
Minor: A student who fulfills all the program requirements of the discipline and successfully 
completes a specified set of courses from another discipline is eligible to receive a minor in 
other discipline.
Overall Grade Point Average (OGPA): It is the measure of the total credit points secured 
by a student for all semesters divided by total credits of the courses registered and rounded 
off to three decimals.
Open Elective: This is a course of interdisciplinary nature. It is offered across all engineering 
branches of University.
Overloading: Registering for a greater number of credits than normally prescribed by the 
Program in a semester.
Practice School: It is a part of the total program and takes one full semester in a 
professional location, where the students and the faculty get involved in finding solutions 
to real world problems. A student can choose Project/Practice School during 7th or 8th 
semester of academic Year to meet the final requirements for a degree.
Pre-requisite: A course, the knowledge of which is required for registration into higher 
level course.
Problem Solving Using Programming Elective is a course that emphasizes the 
development of problem-solving skills through programming. Students learn coding, 
algorithmic thinking, and computational problem-solving strategies to address real-world 
challenges in different domains.
Program: A set of courses offered by the department for the award of degree. A student 
can register and complete the stipulated minimum credits to qualify for the award of a 
degree in that Program.
Program Core: The courses that are essential constituents of each engineering discipline 
are categorized as Program Core courses for that discipline.

===== PAGE 55 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
55


===== PAGE 56 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
56
Program Elective: A course that is discipline centric and is offered as an elective.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs): Program Educational Objectives are broad 
statements that describe the career and professional accomplishments that the program is 
preparing graduates to achieve.
Program Outcomes (POs): Program Outcomes are statements that describe what 
students are expected to know and be able to do upon graduating from the program. These 
relate to the skills, knowledge, attitude, and behaviour that students acquire through the 
program.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs): PSOs are a statement that describes what students 
are expected to know and be able to do in a specialized area of discipline upon graduation 
from a program. In a Program there may be 2-4 PSOs, if required. These are the statements, 
which are specific to the program. They are beyond POs. Program Curriculum and other 
activities during the program must help in the achievement of PSOs along with POs.
Registration: Process of student enrollment into a set of course(s) in a semester/summer 
/winter semester of the Program.
Re-Registering: A student who wishes to repeat a course is permitted to do so, subject 
to the regulations contained herein.  
Semester: It is a period of study comprising of 14 to 18 weeks of academic/ research 
engagement equivalent to 90 working days including the examination. In case of programs 
offered by School of Agriculture, semester comprises of 110 working days including 
examinations.
End Semester Examinations (ESE): It is an examination conducted at the end of the 
course of study every semester..
Seminar on Emerging Technologies: A mandatory credit course that a student should 
undergo to enhance his/her knowledge on emerging technologies.
Specialization Core: Focused courses within an academic program that provide in-depth knowledge 
and skills in a specific area of study is known as specialization core
Specialization Elective: An elective course offered by a Department/ School for the 
fulfillment of degree with specialization is known as specialization elective.
Winter/ Summer Semester: A semester offered during winter/summer to enable 
students to complete backlog courses along with two regular semesters. Courses for grade 
improvement can also be taken during this time.
Under-loading: Registering for lesser number of credits than normally prescribed by the 
program in a semester.
Withdraw from a Course: A student can withdraw from a course within the first two 
weeks of the odd or even Semester and within one week for summer /winter semester. 
The student can choose to register for a substitute course by exercising the option within 
3 working days subject to availability.

===== PAGE 57 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
57


===== PAGE 58 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
58
Admissions
Eligibility Criteria for Admission 
Admission to any program in a session will be open to the candidates as per the eligibility 
criterion approved by the University Academic Council and laid down in the information 
brochure/ website of the university.
Admission Committees
i. The Director (Admissions) shall appoint Admission Committees for UG/ PG/ Ph. D 
programs.
ii. The powers and duties of the Admission Committees shall be to select the candidates 
for admission to UG/ PG/ Ph. D programs in accordance with the approved procedure 
as mentioned in the information brochure/ website of the university.
General Instructions
i. English shall be medium of instruction/examination.
ii. Seats in all the programs will be filled only based on merit in an entrance test or any 
other admission criteria as specified in prospectus.
iii. Medium of communication in the University will be in English.
iv. In case of non-fulfillment of academic requirements/unauthorized absence/
Indiscipline/ withdrawal on own request, Dean Academics is empowered to strike 
off the name of the student from the nominal rolls of the respective program. The 
appeals, if any, can be made to Chairperson, Academic Council whose decision shall 
be final.


===== PAGE 59 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
59
Duration and Credit Range
Academic Instructions
The UG programs offered by SRU shall adopt a semester system. There will be two regular 
semesters in an academic year, the Odd Semester will be from July/August to November/
December and Even Semester from December/January to April/May. The semester includes 
continuous evaluations and end term examinations. 
An optional summer/ winter semester may be offered during the summer /winter vacation 
UG Programs Normal Duration Maximum Duration Credits Range
B.Tech 8 semesters 16 semesters 160
Lateral Entry 6 semesters 12 semesters 110-130
BBA 6 semesters 12 semesters 120
B.Sc (Hons.) 
Agriculture 8 semesters 14 semesters 185-190
B.Sc 6 semesters 12 semesters 120
BCA 6 semesters 12 semesters 120
PG Programs
M.Sc Agriculture 4 semesters 10 semesters 80
M.Sc 4 semesters 8 semesters 80
MCA 4 semesters 8 semesters 80
MBA 4 semesters 8 semesters 80
M.Tech 4 semesters 8 semesters 80
Dual Degree
B.Tech + BBA 8 semesters 16 semesters 160-200
B.Tech + MBA 10 semesters 20 semesters 200-220

===== PAGE 60 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
60
considering the demand for such courses by students, subject to the availability of time, 
faculty, and other resources. The summer /winter semester is offered under a fast-track 
mode, considering the smaller number of instructional days available during summer /winter 
vacation period. However, the number of instructional hours needed to cover the syllabi 
shall be maintained (equivalent to that in the regular semester) with a greater number of 
instruction hours per week. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, all rules and regulations 
applicable to a course offered during a regular semester is applicable to the courses offered 
during the summer /winter semester. A student may register for course(s) in each summer 
/winter semester by paying the stipulated fee. 
These sessions are offered by the university to support students to clear backlogs/ register 
for advanced courses, improvement of grades in the courses, courses required for acquiring 
minor degree or honours.
The Supplementary examinations shall be conducted after the completion of each semester 
on the dates notified by the Dean Academics/Controller of Examinations.
Course Plan 
A course plan contains the details of the courses viz. course title, course code, pre-requisite, 
credit structure, team of instructors, course objectives, course outcomes and the relevant 
syllabus, textbook(s) and reference books, course delivery plan and session plan, evaluation 
method, office consultation hour, course notices and other course related aspects.
Course Registration
i. Every student will have to register for the courses as per the approved scheme after 
satisfying all the requirements (semester fee, no dues etc.) for registration on the 
date as notified by the Dean (Academics) in the academic calendar.
ii. For valid reasons, late registration up to a maximum of 15 calendar days from the 
date of commencement of the semester may be permitted with the approval of 
the Dean (Academics) and on payment of a late Registration fee as mentioned in 
academic calender and guidelines specified by the University. 
iii. In cases of late registrations, Dean (Academics) is authorized to instruct the Officer 
incharge regarding the collection of fees in such cases with a fine.
iv. A student will be allowed to register for courses as per the curriculum. If the student 
registers for less credits through Underloading with the permission of the Dean 
of the School then the remaining courses needs to be done in the summer/winter 
semester as per the regulations governing those or the student has to register for an 
extra semester beyond regular 8 semesters.
v. Students will get a chance to make their own plan of study in consultation with their 
respective Mentor by changing the pace with which they study. 
vi. Registration for add/drop/change of a course shall be permitted with a fine as given 
in the academic calendar.
vii. Students who have opted for a Minor, Honors degree, can register for a greater 
number of credits in a semester through Overloading.
viii. An elective course may be offered only if a minimum of 20 students registers for the 

===== PAGE 61 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
61
course. There may be exceptions as per the discretion of the Dean (Academics) 
ix. SRU reserves the right to withdraw any elective course offered within one week 
of the commencement of the semester if adequate numbers of students have not 
registered or for any other administrative reasons. In such cases, the students are 
permitted to register for any other elective course of their choice, provided they have 
fulfilled the eligibility conditions.
x. SRU reserves the right to cancel the registration of a student from a course on 
disciplinary / plagiarism grounds.
xi. A student is solely responsible to ensure that all conditions for proper registration are 
satisfied. If there is any clash in the timetable, it should be immediately brought to 
the notice of the Program Coordinator for necessary corrective action.
Degree with Honours
A student is eligible for a Degree with Honours, subject to the following:
i. Student should have a CGPA of 7.0 or higher at the time of start of the honors 
courses in the curriculum to register for honours program and maintain a CGPA of 
7.0 at the time of award of degree.
ii. Student must earn a minimum of 16 additional credits through advanced courses 
other than the courses required as per the program by registering for those courses.
iii. Student must acquire the additional credits by overloading during a regular semester 
or summer / winter semester.
iv. In case, a student fails to meet the CGPA requirement at the time of award of 
a degree or withdraws for a degree with honours at any point after registration, 
student will be dropped from the list of students eligible for a degree with honours 
and they will receive their major degree only. However, the additional courses 
completed by them will be mentioned in their grade sheet.
v. Students must pay extra fees for all the courses registered for honours.
vi. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards the honours award are not 
counted and shall have no influence on the SGPA/ CGPA of the ‘program’ in which 
the student has enrolled in the university.
Minor Degree
A student is eligible for UG Degree with a Minor subject to the following:
i. Student should have a CGPA of 6.0 or higher before the start of minor courses as per 
curriculum to register for the minor program.
ii. Successfully acquire a minimum of 16 additional credits by registering for courses 
offered by another department. However, additional open electives can be counted 
for minor degree as well.
iii. Student must acquire the additional credits by overloading during a regular semester 
or summer /winter semester.
iv. If any of the courses listed under the minor option is a course listed under parent 

===== PAGE 62 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
62
curriculum as program core, then the student cannot opt for that minor.
v. Students must pay extra fees for all the courses registered for minor.
vi. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards the minor are not counted and 
shall have no influence on the SGPA/ CGPA of the program in which the student has 
enrolled in the university.
vii. In case a student fails to meet the CGPA requirement or withdraws for a degree with 
minors at any point after registration, student will be dropped from the list of students 
eligible for a degree with minor, and they will receive their respective degree only. 
However, the additional courses completed by them will be mentioned in their grade 
sheet.
Semester Abroad Program
Students are given an opportunity to spend a semester at some of the best universities 
in the world. The Semester Abroad Program at SRU encourages students from all streams 
to pursue one semester abroad in one of the partner universities. Office of International 
Affairs and Corporate Outreach (IACO) shall finalize the desirous students for the Semester 
Abroad Program based on eligibility requirements. Such studies may involve additional 
cost bearable by the students. However student shoud pay the SR University fee for that 
semester. To know more the interested students are advised to  contact IACO office in 
Block-I.
Contact: Ms Pritha Chakrabarty – 9354395227
Summer/ Winter Immersion Program
SRU provides students with the opportunity to attend Summer/Winter Immersion Programs 
at some of the world’s leading universities like National University of Singapore, FPT 
University, San Francisco State University, USA and many more for durations ranging from 
1week to 6 weeks. Engaging in short-term abroad summer school programs presents an 
unparalleled chance to expand one’s horizons through immersive experiences in diverse 
cultures and academic settings. The condensed structure of summer sessions facilitates 
invaluable international exposure without causing disruptions to regular academic routines. 
These programs typically integrate hands-on learning experiences and the opportunity to 
establish international networks, contributing to a holistic understanding of global dynamics. 
Equipping students with a nuanced global perspective, these experiences prove instrumental 
in preparing them for success in our progressively interconnected and globalized society. 
For further infor-mation you may contact International affairs Office at 1st block.
Contact: Ms Pritha Chakrabarty – 9354395227
Progression pathways
 SRU also facilitates students with Progression Pathway Programs, specially tailored for SRU 
students in collaboration with partner universities. In these customized programs, students 
seamlessly transfer to the partner university during their final year (7th or 8th Semester) 
to obtain a bachelor’s degree from SRU and a master’s degree from the partner institution. 

===== PAGE 63 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
63


===== PAGE 64 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
64
The distinct advantage lies in students com-pleting their programs ahead of their peers, 
leading to both time and financial savings. Notably, these programs often waive GRE/TOEFL 
requirements, streamlining the application process. The beauty of this arrangement extends 
to post-study work rights, as participating in these Master’s Programs does not compromise 
the ability to pursue employment in the host country. This innovative approach not only 
accelerates academic achievement but also enhances the overall value of the educational 
experience for SRU students. 
For more information kindly contact IACO office. 1st Block, ground Floor.
Contact: Ms Pritha Chakrabarty – 9354395227
Program Curriculum
For an academic program, the curriculum is the basic framework that will stipulate the 
credits, category, course code, course title, course delivery (Lectures / Tutorials / Practice/ 
Skill/Practical/ Drawing/ Project/ Capstone Design etc.), following the Fully Flexible Credit 
System (FFCS). These components are designed, implemented, and assessed in Outcome 
Based Education Framework at SRU.
The student shall register for and secure the specified number of credits required for the 
completion of the concerned program as specified by the respective department / 
school for Award of the Degree.
Course Classification 
Any course offered under B.Tech. Program is classified as:
Compulsory/Mandatory Courses
• Humanities and Social Sciences (HS)
• Basic Sciences (BS)
• Engineering Sciences (ES)
• Program Core (PC)
Elective Courses
• Program Electives
• Specialization Electives
• Open Electives 
i. The students must choose the Program / Specialization / Open Electives from the 
approved list as per the curriculum.
ii. The Program / Specialization / Open Electives are offered as tracks and as individual 
courses. The student can opt for a track and continue in the same or opt for any 
Program / Specialization / Open Elective from the list provided.
iii. Based on the industry / societal demand, additional relevant course(s) may be added 
under Program / Specialization / Open Elective (s).
iv. Students have the option to register for a few elective courses from the approved list 

===== PAGE 65 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
65
of MOOC courses.
Project Courses
• Industrial Training
• Mini Project
• Certification Course
• Internship
• Industrial Project/R&D Project/ Start-up Venture
• Capstone 
• Seminar 
Audit Courses
Audit course is an opportunity for students to attend classes without receiving academic 
credit. Students are permitted to register the course without the expectation of completing 
assignments, taking exams, or receiving a grade.
Induction Courses
A student who gets admitted into undergraduate program must attend the Induction 
program for a prescribed period during the first year    of the Program.
Attendance Policy
A student is expected to maintain 100% attendance in all courses. However, because a 
student may need leave due to ill-health or to attend some family emergency, a student is 
permitted to maintain a minimum of 75% attendance (i.e., absent for 25% of instructional 
hours) in each course without producing any proof for the absence. This 25% absence 
includes medical, personnel, casual, official leave of absence for organizing events/ seminars/ 
workshops/ technical/ cultural festivals/competitions/ participation in co- curricular/ extra- 
curricular events/ NSS & NCC camps, or any other (valid or otherwise) reason. In case 
of medical exigencies, the student/parent should inform the concerned instructor/Dept 
immediately by official email/other means of communication. 
• In case of attendance falls marginally below 75% due to severe medical reasons or 
any other valid reasons, the School Dean may bring such cases, along with valid and 
adequate evidence, to the notice of the Dean (Academics). 
• The condonation board led by Dean (Academics) will consider any further relaxation in 
attendance from the minimum 75% condition after going through case by case. 
• A 10-25% waiver is at the discretion of the condonation board, in which case there 
shall be a financial penalty levied as condonation fees in proportion to the charges are 
mentioned in the Annexure-I.
• In case of students belonging to School of Agriculture, only a 10% waiver 
is at the discretion of the condonation board, in which case there shall be a 

===== PAGE 66 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
66
financial penalty levied as condonation fees in proportion to the Condonation.  
 
Absence in Assessments and Mid-Term Examination
If a student fails to take the Mid Term Examination or obtains less than 50% marks in the 
Mid Term Examination, then student may be given a makeup exam option. Student need to 
pay additional makeup exam fee as per the Annexure-I and need to register for the make-
up exam before due-date.  
Remedial Classes
The following are the guidelines to conduct remedial classes:
i. The remedial classes shall be scheduled as per the requirements of the course and 
assessment of the instructor regarding the progress of the course.
ii. The remedial classes shall be scheduled in addition to the regular classwork.
Detention Policy
In any course, a student must maintain minimum attendance as per the attendance  policy, 
failing which student is deemed to be detained in that course.
Examinations
i.) Examinations in each semester shall be conducted as per the regulations confirming to 
the prescribed syllabi. All students shall register for the courses including the project 
semester/ alternative semester given in the scheme approved by the  Academic 
Council.
ii.) The examinations will be held in each semester on specific dates as mentioned in the 
Academic Calendar.
iii.) To be eligible to appear for End Semester Examinations in course(s) of any semester, 
a student must have registered for that concerned course(s) and should not be in 
the detained list of that course. If a student falls short of the required attendance, 
student shall be awarded “R” grade in the concerned course(s).
The Dean, Academics will manage the cases of shortage of attendance and shall forward 
them to the CoE for award of “R” grade.
Evaluation and Results
I. For B.Tech/ M.Tech/ BBA/ MBA/B.Sc/M.Sc/BCA/MCA
i.) A Course Coordinator shall be designated by the Head of Department/School for 
each course.
• For each course, the Instructor(s) shall be responsible for setting the question  

===== PAGE 67 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
67
paper and evaluating the answer booklets. The Instructor(s) shall award the 
marks through continuous evaluation of the students during the semester as well 
as in the End Semester Examination. The continuous evaluation consists of various 
components such as midterm examination, quizzes, assignments, active learning 
methods, projects, hackathons, certifications and online course completion etc. 
• For the practical (Laboratory/design/drawing/workshop) component the marks 
shall be awarded by the Instructor(s) of the course through continuous evaluation 
of the students during the semester.
• Mark distribution and weightage of each component of continuous evaluation and 
End Semester Examination will be at discretion of concerned course coordinator 
and will be communicated through course plan, at the commencement of the 
course.
• Evaluation Committee shall be responsible for the evaluation of Seminar/ Internship 
/ Capstone /Industry Project etc. as per the norms.
• After the examinations and evaluation is completed, the Instructor(s) shall compile 
the  marks of respective course and award the grades within one week from the 
day of conduct of end semester examination of that course.
ii.) The grades shall be decided on the aggregate of evaluation of all the components as 
per defined weightage. 
iii.) The grading shall be based on relative grading method as decided by the coordinator 
for the course.
iv.) Letter grades will be awarded to the students as indicated below. Each 
letter grade indicates the level of performance in a course and has a grade
         O, A, B, C & D: These grades are the pass grades.
R, F: If these grades are awarded in any course, then that course shall be termed 
as a backlog course
O grade: Exceptional performers among ’A’ grade students will be awarded this 
grade.
Letter Grade Performance Grade Point
O Outstanding 10
A Excellent 10
B Very Good 8
C Good 6
D Average 4
R Inadequate Attendance / 
Dropped / Unregistered 0
F Fail 0
I Incomplete 0

===== PAGE 68 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
68


===== PAGE 69 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
69
F grade: This grade is awarded to undergraduate (UG) students who have 
attendance more than 75% in a course but fail to achieve a minimum of 40% in the 
overall semester evaluation including continuous assessments and end exams. For 
postgraduate (PG) students, this grade is given when they maintain attendance of 
over 75% but fail to achieve a minimum of 50% in the overall semester evaluation 
including continuous assessments and end exams.
R grade:  If a student is detained based on attendance or due to any penalty or 
drops a semester, ‘R’ grade is awarded. A student, who earns ‘R’ grade in a course, 
shall register for that course in summer/winter semester.
I grade: If a student fails to appear for the end semester examination due to 
medical reasons, ‘I’ grade will be awarded. 
CGPA is the weighted average of all the grades awarded to a student since his 
entry into the University up to and including the latest semester and is computed as 
follows.
CGPA = (ΣCi Gi) / (ΣCi)
where Ci is the number of credits assigned to ith course and Gi is the grade point 
equivalent to the letter grade obtained by the student in the ith course. When a 
student repeats a course, the new grade will replace the earlier one in the calculation 
of the CGPA.
While calculating CGPA, I grade secured by the student shall not be considered.
Formula for conversion of CGPA to percentage of marks is (10 x CGPA).
Dean (Academics) will approve registration of students who have backlog course(s) 
in each semester. However, the student may be allowed to study an equivalent course 
(against the backlog course), if necessary, with the approval of Dean (Academics)/
School Dean. The decision of Dean, Academics/School Dean about their registration 
of courses in each semester would be final and binding on such students.
Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Course/ Subject Credits Letter
Grade Secured
Grade
Points
Credit
Points
Course1 4 A 10 4x10=40
Course2 4 O 10 4x10=40
Course3 2 C 6 2x6=12
Course4 3 B 8 3x8=24
Course5 1 A 10 1x10=10
Course6 1 O 10 1 x 10 = 10
Course7 2 B 8 2x8=16
Course8 1 D 4 1x4=4
18 156
SGPA=156/18=8.66

===== PAGE 70 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
70
Illustration of Calculation of CGPA upto 3rdSemester:
Semester Course Credits Letter Grade 
Secured
Grade Points 
(GP)
Credit 
Points 
(CP)
I Course1 4 B 8 32
I Course 2 4 O 10 40
I Course3 2 C 6 12
I Course4 3 B 8 24
I Course5 1 A 10 10
I Course6 1 D 4 4
II Course7 5 C 6 30
II Course8 1 B 8 8
II Course9 3 C 6 18
II Course10 4 A 10 40
II Course11 4 C 6 24
II Course12 5 D 4 20
II Course13 3 B 8 24
III Course14 3 A 10 30
III Course15 4 B 8 32
III Course16 1 C 6 6
III Course17 3 F 0 0
III Course18 1 B 8 8
III Course19 4 C 6 24
III Course20 4 B 8 32
Total
Credits
60 Total Credit
Points
418
CGPA= 418/60 = 6.96
v. Process to clear Backlogs:
i. A student with ‘R’ grade shall re-register for the course, as and when offered 
and fulfill all the requirements of continuous evaluation of the course to appear 
for the end semester examination. It can be done in winter/summer semester 
only.
ii. A student with ‘F’ grade may opt for any of the following options.
a.  Student may register for that course again when it is offered next.
                                                OR
b. Student may register for supplementary examination after end semester 
exam without attending further additional classes. A course Instructor will, 
however, be designated to conduct the examination and guide the student. 

===== PAGE 71 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
71
Only one supplementary chance is allowed for each course failing 
which the student has to repeat that course during winter/summer 
semester as a backlog course.
vi. Process to clear I Grade:
i. A student with ‘I’ grade may opt for any of the following options.
a.  Student may register for that course again when it is offered next.
                                               OR
b. Student may register for supplementary examination after end semester 
exam without attending further additional classes. A course Instructor will, 
however, be designated to conduct the examination and guide the student. 
This examination is consider as re-exam 
vii. Grading in the supplementary exam shall be done as under:
         A Student with ‘I’ Grade
(a) The supplementary exam shall be treated as re-conduct of the semester end  
exam of that course.
(b) Grades shall be awarded by substituting the end semester marks with the marks 
secured in supplementary exam.
(c) The cut off limits of the exam conducted in just concluded semester shall be taken 
into consideration for award of grades.
A Student with ‘F’ Grade 
(a) The supplementary exam shall be treated as supplementary of the semester           
end exam  of that course.
(b) The cut off limits of the End Semester exam conducted in just concluded 
semester shall be taken into consideration for award of grades. 
(c) Maximum C grade shall be awarded for supplementary passed students.
viii. Summer / Winter Semester: In addition to above, students securing ‘R’ 
or ‘F,’ or ‘I’ grade shall be offered course(s) in winter/summer semester subject to 
availability of faculty.
ix. The semester results will be declared by Controller of Examinations after obtaining 
approval from Dean (Academics).
The Controller of Examinations shall publish the result of the students indicating their 
grades and the SGPA/CGPA obtained, on a 10-point scale.
At the end of each semester (i.e., after end semester examination) students will be issued 
a grade sheet by the CoE’s office indicating the grades secured in each course and up to 
date CGPA.
Once grades are allotted, any correction thereafter will only be made with the approval of 
Director of Evaluation, on the recommendation of the Dean (Academics).

===== PAGE 72 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
72
Minimum Academic Requirement for Continuing the Program
A student will be allowed to continue in the respective program only if,
a.) At the end of first year, student 
i) Secures a CGPA of greater than or equal to 3.50
                                       OR
ii) Earns a minimum of 40% of the credits offered in the approved scheme of 
courses in the first year.
b.) At the end of second year, student
i) Secures a CGPA of greater than or equal to 4.00
                                       OR
ii) Earns a minimum of 50% of the credits offered in the approved scheme of 
courses in the first year.
c.) At the end of Third year, student 
i) Secures a CGPA of greater than or equal to 4.00 
                                      OR
ii) Earns a minimum of 50% of the credits offered in the approved scheme of 
courses in the second year
d.) ** A student who fails to satisfy both the conditions mentioned in the above paras 
i) and ii) of sub-clause (a) or (b) will be required to repeat the entire year. For the 
Lateral entry students, clause (b) only will be applicable.
On request of student under medical grounds falling in ii) of sub-clause (a) or (b), student 
shall be allowed to continue studies at own risk for a maximum period of two semesters 
with a proper undertaking. If on completion of this extended period of two semesters, 
student is still not able to fulfill the eligibility criteria, student will have to be detained and 
shall be promoted to the next year only on satisfying the minimum academic requirements.
Grade Moderation Committee
i. 40% pass marks are required in aggregate for awarding the D grade to the UG student.  
50% pass marks are required in aggregate for awarding the D grade to the PG 
student. 
ii. Every Dept/School may constitute a grade moderation committee that will consist of 
three faculty including the course instructor. One of them should be Head/Dean of 
the Dept/School. Other person may be nominated by Dean (Academics).
iii. Students should be shown answer sheets at a designated date, time and venue for 
any doubts they may have. Students are entitled to discuss their performance with 
course instructor who may revise the marks if necessary and record on top of the 
answer script.

===== PAGE 73 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
73
iv. Examination answer scripts shall be held by Dept/School for a period of one year. 
Credit Transfer through MOOCs
The undergraduate students can acquire credits from Massive open online courses (MOOCs) 
recommended by SRU up to a maximum of 20% of their minimum credits required for 
graduation. The allocation of MOOCs equivalent to the courses in the curriculum lies with 
the office of the Dean Academics based on the recommendations made by the concerned 
Head of the Department.
Requirement for the Award of Degree
i. A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for a program and is 
eligible for the award of degree if, student has earned a CGPA of greater than or 
equal to 4.00.
ii. Student has satisfied all the rules and regulations. student has taken all the required 
courses.
iii. Student has deposited all fees due. There is no case of indiscipline pending against 
her/him.
Grade Improvement Policy
The university understands that students, due to various reasons, at times do not perform 
to their full potential resulting in lower CGPA than desired. As the overall CGPA and grades 
remain with students all their life, the university proposes the grade improvement policy so 
that students can improve their grades.  
Eligibility & Rules
i. Students having grade B to D are eligible for grade improvement in a course.
ii. There is no capping of grade and the student can even get an A grade with grade 
improvement  
iii. The student can take a maximum of one attempt to upgrade his/her grade for a 
particular course and any further attempts shall not be allowed.
iv. Revised grade shall be considered for eligibility of Honors/Minors Courses, internships/
placements and also international admissions based on CGPA..  
v. In case of grade improvement for a course, the better of the two grades is considered.
vi. The students shall go through the full course and all components of evaluation, 
irrespective of his/her previous participation in the evaluation components of the 
same course. The grade of the course and evaluation shall be considered completely 
independent of each other.
vii. Student will be required to register for the grade improvement in a course as per the 
registration schedule notified by the Examination Branch before every Summer 
semester.

===== PAGE 74 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
74


===== PAGE 75 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
75
viii. Grade improvement shall not be allowed after the student passes out of the university 
or has been awarded a degree certificate.
ix. The revised grade sheet shall specifically be mentioned as “Revised Grade Sheet” to 
distinguish it from the previous grade sheet released to the student.
x. The revised CGPA, calculated after considering the revised grade(s) shall be known 
as revised CGPA. Student shoud pay additional fee fro credit as per Annexure-I.
Policy on Backlog Courses/ Not Registered Courses
To facilitate the students to clear their backlogs / not registered courses and enable them 
to pass out with their batch mates, the following provisions are offered: 
(a) Backlog courses will be allowed in the Winter / Summer Semester.
(b) The previous batches shall be given the option to appear for their backlogs in 
Summer Term / Winter Term. 
(c) The number of credits offered for the Winter or Summer semester is contingent 
upon the availability of Teaching days. Student can take maximum credits offered 
in winter/summer semester to clear backlog or grade improvement.
(d) Student will be required to register for the backlog / not registered courses as 
per the registration schedule notified by the Examination Branch before every 
Winter / Summer Semester.  
II For B.Sc (Hons.) Agriculture and M.Sc Programs  – School of Agriculture
Evaluation of students, examinations and grades
i. The evaluation of the student in a course shall be based on his/her performance in 
various kinds of examinations, records, classwork and other types of exercises.
ii. The detailed course outlines in each course will be made available to the students 
during the first week of the semester. A schedule of the mid-term examinations of 
the academic programme shall be notified to the students at the beginning of each 
semester
iii. Answer scripts of mid-term examinations are evaluated by the teacher shall be 
shown to the students. The students shall have the option to request the teacher for 
clarification of any doubts in scoring, provided that such clarification is requested for 
when the answer scripts are made available to them. This, shall not apply for final 
both theory and practical examinations.
Mid-term examinations
a. There shall be one mid-semester examination to be conducted by the teacher 
offering the course after 50% of the working days are over in a semester. The 
duration for mid-semester examination shall be for one and half hours and the 
end semester examination shall be two and half hours.
b.  The marks allotted for mid-term and end term  examinations shall be 50 and 100, 
respectively. Ordinarily no condonation for absence of mid-term examination shall 

===== PAGE 76 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
76
be given. However, the mid term examination to be conducted to the students 
who could not appear these examinations in view of their participation in the 
inter-university and National Sports, Literary and Cultural events etc along with 
the students who genuinely prevented from taking examination in the case of 
serious illness or accident or any other case. This repeat examination shall be 
held within two weeks from the date of examinations so missed, and shall be a 
common examination for all such students.
c.  Unless a student appears for the mid-term examination he/she shall not be 
permitted to appear for the end term theory and practical examinations in the 
course concerned. The special re-examination shall be conducted as per the 
time to be fixed by the Dean within two weeks from the last date of mid term 
examinations. The weightage of marks allotted for mid term and end term 
examination shall be as per V Deans Committee recommendations
End term examinations
a. The end term examinations shall be held at the end of each semester in each 
course. The end term examination in the theory portion shall be of two and 
half hours duration. It shall be the responsibility of the University to conduct 
the theory portion of semester final examination. Practical examinations shall be 
conducted by the respective colleges. The students shall be given two preparation 
holidays (inclusive of the public holiday) before the commencement of end term 
theory examinations.
b.  Answer scripts of end term examinations are evaluated through common spot 
valuation system year of study wise. On the last day of end term examinations, 
the Dean shall send all the sealed answer scripts to the selected center where 
they are coded, before distribution for valuation. The duration of spot valuation is 
7 (seven) working days. Evaluation instructions are issued by the University from 
time to time for each semester.
Computation and award of courses grades
i.  Marks for the practical shall be based on continuous evaluation of practical classes 
and a final practical examination which shall include a viva-voce examination. In 
respect of RAWE Programme/ Inplant Training / Industrial Attachment / Hands on 
Training / Skill Development Training and ELP etc., the criteria for evaluation of 
students as prescribed in manuals of respective programmes shall be followed.
 Examination:
 (a) Courses with Theory and Practical
• Mid-term Exam (30%) + Assignment (5%) in practical oriented courses + Practical 
(15%) + End-termy (50%)
 (b) Courses with only Theory
•  Mid-term Exam (40%) + Assignment (10%) + End-term (50%)
 (c) Courses with only Practical

===== PAGE 77 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
77
• 100% Internal
ii. End-term Practical Examinations (Internal) shall be conducted by course instructor(s) and 
one teacher nominated by HOD. 
End-term Theory Examinations (External)
(a) The syllabus of the courses concerned shall be sent to atleast two teachers of 
other State Universities with agriculture faculty for each course who shall prepare 
the question paper (Part A : 40 and Part B : 60) in addition to the existing system 
of paper setting.
(b) The Deans of the respective Faculty / COE shall choose two question papers 
which shall be moderated by the teachers as identified by the Deans/COE of the 
respective faculty and finally one of the question papers shall be chosen by Dean 
of the respective faculty/COE for the conduct of end-term theory examination. 
Evaluation shall be done internally by the faculty other than the course Instructor 
in case of single campus colleges.
(c) Weightage with various courses such as course with theory and practical (1+1, 
2+1, 3+1 and 1+2 etc.,) courses with theory only (1+0, 2+0 and 3+0 etc.,) 
and courses with practical only (0+1, 0+2, 0+3 and 0+4 etc.,) are approved as 
proposed.
Academic status and scholastic deficiencies
(a) A student shall get minimum of 50% marks in both final theory and final 
practical examinations separately for a pass in the end-term examination of a 
course. If a student does not achieve this he/she has to reappear for the end-term 
examination in theory/ practical or both as the case may be, when next conducted 
for such course(s).
(b) A student obtaining a grade point of 5.0/6.0 for UG/PG shall be considered 
to have passed the course. A student getting less than 5.0/6.0 for UG/PG shall be 
deemed to have failed in the course and “F” shall be indicated in the grade point. A 
student who secures grade point below 5.0/6.0 for UG/PG or who secures less than 
50%/60% for UG/PG marks in end-term theory / practical examination of the course 
(or) was marked absent has to appear for either final theory or practical examination 
or both (as the case may be). A student may also have the option to write the mid-
term examination of the course in the same semester when he/she next takes the 
Percentage of Marks obtained Conversion into Points
100 10
90 to <100 9 to <10
80 to  <90 8 to < 9
70 to  <80 7 to < 8
60 to  <70 6 to <7
50 to  <60 5 to <6
< 50 (Fail) < 5
Eg. 80.76 8.076

===== PAGE 78 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
78
end-term examination (Theory/practical or both) of that particular course.
(c) Whenever a student wants to take re-examination in any course(s) he/she 
should fill in the particulars in a prescribed application form duly paying the re-exam 
fee as prescribed by the University.
PROMOTION
(a) PROMOTION TO SECOND YEAR: A candidate is automatically promoted to 
second year irrespective of the number of courses absent / failed in the first year.
(b) PROMOTION TO THIRD YEAR: A candidate should have passed all first 
year courses compulsorily, without any backlogs including non-gradial / elective courses 
and should have registered & attended all the courses of 2nd year. 
(c) PROMOTION TO FOURTH YEAR: A candidate should have passed all the 
second year courses compulsorily and should not have any backlogs including electives 
/ non-gradial courses and should have registered & attended all the courses of 3rd 
year. The non-gradial courses / Student Ready programmes and electives if any are 
considered on par with other courses for the purpose of promotion to the next year for 
the students.
Graduation requirements
The student shall satisfy minimum residential requirements and maximum duration as below. 
The minimum residential requirement is eight Semesters for U.G. Degree Programmes in 
the University.
The maximum duration of degree programmes is fourteen semesters (7 academic years). 
Requirements for Bachelor’s Degree
A student undergoing courses of study leading to award of Bachelor’s Degree viz: B.Sc. 
(Hons.) Agriculture (Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in Agriculture), shall pass courses and 
complete the minimum number of credit hours prescribed thereby the Academic Council 
from time to time by obtaining minimum OGPA of 5.000 in the 10 point scale. A student 
undergoing instructions in UG courses of study leading to the award of Bachelor of Science 
(Hons.) in Agriculture, shall have to complete satisfactorily the Student Ready Programmes 
as approved by Academic Council like, Rural Work Experience Programmes / In-Plant training 
/ Industrial Attachment / Hands on training / Skill Development Training / Project Work / 
Experiential Learning Programme etc., as prescribed from time to time.
Classification of successful candidates
The successful candidates after completion of graduation requirements declaration of the 
division / class in the provisional degree certificate and degree certificate in the 10 point 
scale upto 3 decimal places shall be classified asgiven the trans.
OGPA DIVISION
5.000 – 5.999 PASS
6.000 – 6.999 II DIVISION
7.000 – 7.999 I DIVISION
8.000 and above I DIVISION WITH DISTINCTION

===== PAGE 79 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
79
M.Sc. (Agriculture) – Rules & Regulations  
System of Education: Semester
Semester duration: 110 working days including examination days
Eligibility for admission: 
Bachelor’s degree in respective/related subjects
For admission into Master’s courses, the candidates must have secured a minimum OGPA of 
5.50/10.00 or 50% marks in traditional system in the qualifying examination.
Credit requirements: The total requirement of credits for Masters’ in Agriculture is 70  
Breakup of credits 
i) Course work 
Major course   20 credits 
Minor course   08 credits
Supporting course   06 credits
Common course  05 credits
Seminar   01 credits
ii) Thesis Research  30 credits
Total    70 credits
Major courses: From the Discipline in which a student takes admission. Among the listed 
courses, the core courses compulsorily to be taken may be given *mark 
Minor courses: From the subjects closely related to a student’s major subject 
Supporting courses: The subject not related to the major subject. It could be any subject 
considered relevant for student’s research work (such as Statistical Methods, Design of 
Experiments, etc.) or necessary for building his/ her overall competence. 
Common Courses: The following courses (one credit each) will be offered to all students 
undergoing Master’s degree programme: 
1. Library and Information Services 
2. Technical Writing and Communications Skills 
3. Intellectual Property and its management in Agriculture 
4. Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 
5. Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and Rural Development Programmes.
Mandatory requirement of seminars
It has been agreed to have mandatory seminars one in Masters (One Credit)
The students should be encouraged to make presentations on the latest developments 

===== PAGE 80 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
80
and literature in the area of research topic. This will provide training to the students on 
preparation for seminar, organizing the work, critical analysis of data and presentation 
skills.
Online learning resources
A Postgraduate student may take up to a maximum of 20% credits in a semester through 
online learning resources
Permissible work load 
Students of masters can register a maximum of 22 credits per semester including non-
credit courses, seminar and research. However, research credits registered per semester 
should not exceed 20 credits.
Attendance requirement 
A student who fails to secure 80 per cent of attendance in each course separately for theory 
and practical, shall not be permitted to appear for the final examination in that course and 
shall be awarded ‘E’ (incomplete) and will be required to repeat the course when offered 
with juniors
Residential requirements
The minimum and maximum duration of residential requirement for Masters’ Degree
PG Degree Duration of Residential Requirements
Master Degree Minimum Maximum
2 Academic Years
(4 Semester)
5 Academic Years
(10 Semester)
In case a student fails to complete the degree programme within the maximum duration 
of residential requirement, his/ her admission shall stand cancelled. The requirement shall 
be treated as satisfactory in the cases in which a student submits his/ her thesis any time 
during the 4th semester of his/ her resident-ship at the University for Masters’ programme, 
respectively.
Evaluation of course work and comprehensive examination
For M.Sc., multiple levels of evaluation (Midterm and Final semester) is desirable. However, 
it has been felt that the comprehensive examination is redundant for M.Sc. students
Advisory System
Advisory Committee
There shall be an Advisory Committee for every student consisting of not fewer than three 
members in the case of a candidate for Masters’ degree. 
The Advisory Committee should have representatives from the major and minor fields 
amongst the members of the Post-graduate faculty with two years of experience. 
The Advisor should convene a meeting of the Advisory Committee at least once in a 
Semester. The summary record should be communicated to the Head of Department, Dean 
of the School, Dean academics and Registrar for information.

===== PAGE 81 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
81
Preparation and Submission of Synopsis 
The synopsis of research work in PG form shall be submitted to the School for approval by 
the end of 2nd semester.
Prevention of plagiarism
An institutional mechanism should be in place to check the plagiarism. The students 
must be made aware that manipulation of the data/ plagiarism is punishable with serious 
consequences.
Submission of Thesis
The research credits registered in the last semester of post graduate programs should be 
evaluated only at the time of the submission of thesis (before sending the thesis to the 
external examiner) by the advisory committee. Students can submit the thesis at the end 
of the final semester
Evaluation of Thesis
The thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of a master’s degree shall be evaluated by an 
external examiner nominated by the Dean of the School.
Academic Status & Scholastic Probation
In order to pass, a post graduate (M.Sc.) student shall secure a minimum GPA of 6.50 
/10.00 at the end of first semester and a minimum OGPA of 6.50/10.00 during subsequent 
semesters.
A post graduate students who secured GPA/OGPA between 6.00 and 6.49 in a particular 
semester, shall be placed on Scholastic probation during the subsequent semester. If a post 
graduate student who is on scholastic probation during a semester again fails to secure the 
minimum OGPA of 6.50 (required for pass), the Dean of the School may decide whether to 
allow the student to continue on scholastic probation for the second time or to withdraw the 
student from the University. PG students whose GPA / OGPA is less than 6.50 / 10.00 may 
be permitted to appear for re-examination in such courses in which the grade is less than 
6.50 so as to enable them to improve the GPA/ OGPA to 6.50/10.00 or above.
If a post graduate student fails to secure a minimum G.P.A. of 6.00 /10.00 at the end of I 
semester or OGPA 6.00/10.00 during subsequent semesters, his/her admission shall stand 
cancelled and the student is deemed to have been withdrawn from the University.

===== PAGE 82 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
82
Committee for Prevention of Academic Malpractice (CPAM)
The Vice-chancellor shall appoint CPAM every academic year to deal with the cases of alleged 
misconduct and malpractice in all the examinations conducted by the University. This committee 
shall include one student member.
CPAM will take all necessary steps, as deemed fit, for the prevention of any misconduct and 
malpractices. The Chairperson, CPAM shall issue appropriate instructions (such as e-mails/
notices to students, faculty, and staff) before the examinations.
As soon as a student is identified by the invigilator or by any authorized person, of having resorted 
to unfair means his answer book shall be seized. The papers etc. duly signed by the invigilator, 
found in possession of the student shall be tagged with her/his answer book in candidate’s 
presence. The invigilator shall ask the candidate to make a statement in writing, explaining 
his conduct. In case the candidate refuses to do so, the fact of his refusal shall be recorded 
by the Invigilator, which should be attested by at least one invigilator on duty. In the case of 
practical tests/performance tests on PCs the act of using unfair means should be recorded by the 
invigilator attested by at least one invigilator/witness. Evidence in form of softcopy/photostat/
photograph etc. should be submitted along with the statement of the student.
After completing all above formalities, a fresh answer-book shall be given to the student for 
completing the examination. After a particular test/examination session is over, these answer- 
books, (duly marked I and II) shall be sent or delivered separately to CoE along with the report. 
CPAM shall enquire into the cases of attempt of any malpractice in the examinations. It shall 
submit its recommendations after clearly identifying the category of nature of the offence as 
listed in the Regulations to the CoE for consideration and necessary order.
Nature of Malpractices/Improper 
conduct Action to be Taken
If the candidate:
1. (a)
Possesses or keeps accessible in 
examination hall, any paper, note book, 
programmable calculators, cell phones, 
pager, palm computers or any other form 
of material concerned with or related to 
the course of the examination (theory 
or practical) in which s(he) is appearing 
but has not made use of (material shall 
include any marks on the body of the 
candidate which can be used as an aid 
in the course of the examination) 
Expulsion from the examination hall and 
cancellation of the performance in that 
course only. 
    (b)
Gives assistance or guidance or receives 
it from any other candidate orally or by 
any other body language methods or 
communicates through cell phones with 
any candidate or persons in or outside 
the exam hall in respect of any matter. 
Expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of the performance in 
that course only of all the candidates 
involved.  In case of an outsider, he will 
be handed over to the police and a case 
is registered against him.

===== PAGE 83 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
83
2
Has copied in the examination hall 
from any paper, book, programmable 
calculators, palm computers or any 
other form of material relevant to the 
course of the examination (theory or 
practical) in which the candidate is 
appearing.
Expulsion from the examination hall and 
cancellation of the performance in that 
course and all other courses the candidate 
has already appeared including practical 
examinations and project work and 
shall not be permitted to appear for the 
remaining examinations of the courses 
of that Semester/year.   The Hall Ticket 
of the candidate is to be cancelled 
and sent to the University.
3 Impersonates any other candidate in 
connection with the examination.
The candidate who has impersonated 
shall be expelled from examination 
hall.  The candidate is also debarred 
and forfeits the seat. The performance 
of the original candidate who has 
been impersonated, shall be cancelled 
in all the courses of the examination 
(including practicals and project work) 
already appeared and shall not be 
allowed to appear for examinations of 
the remaining courses of that semester/
year.  The candidate is also debarred for 
two consecutive semesters from class 
work and all University examinations.  
The continuation of the program by the 
candidate is governed by the academic 
regulations in connection with forfeiture 
of seat.  If the imposter is an outsider, he 
will be handed over to the police and a 
case is registered against him.
4
Smuggles the answer book or additional 
sheet or takes out or arranges to 
send out the question paper during 
the examination or answer book or 
additional sheet, during or after the 
examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of performance in 
that course and all the other courses 
the candidate has already appeared 
including practical examinations and 
project work and shall not be permitted 
for the remaining examinations of the 
courses of that semester/year. The 
candidate is also debarred for two 
consecutive semesters from class work 
and all University examinations. The 
continuation of the program by the 
candidate is governed by the academic 
regulations in connection with forfeiture 
of seat.  

===== PAGE 84 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
84
5
Uses objectionable, abusive or 
offensive language in the answer 
paper or in letters to the examiners or 
writes to the examiner requesting him 
to award pass marks.
Cancellation of the performance in 
that course and disciplinary action (if 
required).
6
Refuses to obey the orders of the 
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – 
Superintendent / any officer on duty 
or misbehaves or creates disturbance 
of any kind in and around the 
examination hall or organizes a walk 
out or instigates others to walk out, 
or threatens the officer-in charge 
or any person on duty in or outside 
the examination hall of any injury to 
his person or to any of his relations 
whether by words, either spoken 
or written or by signs or by visible 
representation, assaults the officer-in-
charge, or any person on duty in or 
outside the examination hall or any of 
his relations, or indulges in any other 
act of misconduct or mischief which 
result in damage to or destruction of 
property in the examination hall or 
any part of the university campus or 
engages in any other act which in the 
opinion of the officer on duty amounts 
to use of unfair means or misconduct 
or has the tendency to disrupt the 
orderly conduct of the examination.
In case of students of the university, they 
shall be expelled from examination halls 
and cancellation of their performance 
in that course and all other courses 
the candidate(s) has (have) already 
appeared and shall not be permitted to 
appear for the remaining examinations 
of the courses of that semester/year.  
The candidates are also debarred and 
forfeit their seats.  In case of outsiders, 
they will be handed over to the police 
and a police case is registered against 
them.
7
Leaves the exam hall taking away 
answer script or intentionally tears of 
the script or any part thereof inside or 
outside the examination hall.
Expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of performance in 
that course and all the other courses 
the candidate has already appeared 
including practical examinations and 
project work and shall not be permitted 
for the remaining examinations of the 
courses of that semester/year. The 
candidate is also debarred for two 
consecutive semesters from class work 
and all University examinations. The 
continuation of the program by the 
candidate is governed by the academic 
regulations in connection with forfeiture 
of seat.  

===== PAGE 85 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
85
8 Possess any lethal weapon or firearm 
in the examination hall.
Expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of the performance 
in that course and all other courses 
the candidate has already appeared 
including practical examinations and 
project work and shall not be permitted 
for the remaining examinations of the 
courses of that semester/year.  The 
candidate is also debarred and forfeits 
the seat.
9
If student of the college, who is 
not a candidate for the particular 
examination or any person not 
connected with the college indulges in 
any malpractice or improper conduct 
mentioned in clause 6 to 8. 
If the student belongs to the university, 
expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of the performance 
in that course and all other courses 
the candidate has already appeared 
including practical examinations and 
project work and shall not be permitted 
for the remaining examinations of the 
courses of that semester/year. The 
candidate is also debarred and forfeits 
the seat. Person(s) who do not belong 
to the university will be handed over 
to police and, a police case will be 
registered against them. 
10 Comes in a drunken condition to the 
examination hall.  
Expulsion from the examination hall 
and cancellation of the performance 
in that course and all other courses 
the candidate has already appeared 
including practical examinations and 
project work and shall not be permitted 
for the remaining examinations of the 
courses of that semester/year.
11
Copying detected on the basis of 
internal evidence, such as, during 
valuation or during special scrutiny.
Cancellation of the performance in 
that course and all other courses the 
candidate has appeared including 
practical examinations and project 
work of that semester/year.
12
If any malpractice is detected which 
is not covered in the above clauses 
1 to 11 shall be reported to the CoE 
for further action to award suitable 
punishment.

===== PAGE 86 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
86
Change of Branch
Students shall be eligible to apply for change of Branch / Program after completing the first 
two semesters. The following rules/guidelines will be used for considering applications for 
change.
i. The students who are among the top 1% (based on CGPA until 2nd semester) will be 
permitted to change to any branch of their choice, subject to the availability of seats.
ii. Apart from students mentioned in clause (i) above, those who have successfully 
completed all the first and second semester courses and with CGPA ≥ 8.0 are also 
eligible to apply, but the change of branch in such case is purely at the discretion of 
the SRU.
iii. All changes of branch will be effective from third semester. Change of branch shall 
not be permitted thereafter.
iv. Change of branch once made will be final and binding on the student. No student 
will be permitted, under any circumstances, to refuse the change of branch offered.
v. Change of branch as in clause (i) & (ii) will be permitted subject to the availability of 
seats in the desired branch.
vi. Apart from students mentioned in clause (ii) above, non-performing students in a 
particular branch may be given an option to choose another branch of their interest 
subject to the availability of seats in the desired branch and is purely at the discretion 
of the SRU.
vii. Students who got upgradation, will have to clear the courses relevant to his/her 
new branch/program. They will have to pay the requisite fee as notified by Dean 
(Academics) to clear such courses.
viii. Students admitted in International Engineering Program shall not be allowed to 
appear in Branch Upgradation process at the end of First Year.
R20-R23 Equivalent Grade Chart
R20/R21
Letter Grade
Grade Points R22 / R23
Letter Grade
Grade Points
O 10 O 10
A+ 9 A 10
A 8 B 8
B+ 7 B 8
B 6 C 6
C 5 C 6
F 0 F 0

===== PAGE 87 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
87
Exit Policy
A student is awarded 1-Year UG Certificate in the concerned Program on completion 
of all the academic requirements and earned all the 40 credits (with in 2 years from 
the date of admission) upto I Year of UG program, if the student wants to exit the UG 
program. The student once opted and awarded for 1-Year UG Certificate, the student will 
not be permitted to continue for completion of remaining years of study for UG Degree.  
A student is awarded 2-Year UG Diploma Certificate in the concerned Program on completion 
of all the academic requirements and earned all the 80 credits (with in 4 years from the date 
of admission) upto II  Year of UG program, if the student wants to exit the UG program. 
The student once opted and awarded for 2-Year UG Diploma Certificate, the student will 
not be permitted to continue for completion of remaining years of study for UG Degree.  
 
A student is awarded 1-Semester PG Certificate in the concerned Program on completion 
of all the academic requirements and earned all the 20 credits (with in 1 years from the 
date of admission) upto I semester of PG program, if the student want to exit the PG 
program. The student once opted and awarded for 1-semester  PG Certificate, the student 
will not be permitted to continue for completion of remaining years of study for PG Degree.  
 
A student is awarded 1-Year PG Diploma Certificate in the concerned Program on completion 
of all the academic requirements and earned all the 40 credits (with in 2 years from the 
date of admission) upto I year of PG program, if the student want to exit the PG program. 
The student once opted and awarded for 1 year PG Diploma Certificate, the student will not 
be permitted to continue for completion of remaining years of study for PG Degree.
Credit Transfer 
Facilitation for transfer of credits to other universities/academic institutions
i. SR University, Warangal shall facilitate transfer of credits earned by its students to 
other universities/ academic institutions in India and abroad. 
ii. A student at the University seeking transfer of credit to other universities/ academic 
institutions shall submit a written request, on prescribed format, along with the 
fee prescribed for the purpose, to the Dean (Academics)..
iii. Dean (Academics) / Registrar, upon receipt of such request, shall issue a complete 
transcript of the courses taken by the student in the university.
Policy framework, procedure, and conditions for accepting transfer of credits 
from other universities/ academic institutions:
i. SR University shall accept transfer of credits earned by a student from the following 
universities/ academic institution/ research institutions:
- Such Indian or Foreign University/ academic institution/ research institution with 
which SR University has signed an MoU for student and faculty   exchange.

===== PAGE 88 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
88


===== PAGE 89 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
89


===== PAGE 90 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
90
- Any accredited university/ academic institution/ research institution - that has 
been recognized by the relevant statutory bodies.
ii. The equivalence/relevance of the courses, shall be decided by appointing and seeking 
recommendations of a committee consisting of subject experts, as appointed by 
Vice-Chancellor, under the leadership of Dean (Academics).
iii. In case of any foreign student coming to SRU, Dean (Academics) will constitute a 
committee to access his/her academic performance.
iv. In case of transfer of students to SRU, a candidate must earn at least 50% credits of 
the  approved scheme of SRU to get degree from SRU.
v. Any student exchange programs shall be initiated for a minimum period of one 
semester with a maximum ceiling of two years of studies.
vi. Equivalence of course shall be approved prior between our partner universities 
through Academic Council of SRU.
vii. A database of such equivalent, evaluated, and approved basket of courses is available 
with the respective Heads of departments/ school.
viii. If student undergoes an exchange program for a semester/ year, between SR 
University and other university/ academic institution, then it is recommended that 
the grades shall be freezed for that semester/ year. 
Award of Medals
The University shall award Gold Medals in all undergraduate/ postgraduate/ diploma 
Programs. Gold Medal shall be awarded only to students who have successfully completed 
the respective programs of study and are merited for such an award as per laid down 
criteria as below:
Chancellor’s Gold Medal: 
The Chancellor’s Gold Medal will be awarded to an undergraduate student who will secure 
first position in overall performance in the University among all programs, branches running 
in the University, subject to minimum number of students registered for the program.
Vice-Chancellor’s Gold Medal: 
The Vice-chancellor’s Gold Medal will be awarded to those students who have secured first 
position in overall performance in each program/branch running in the University.
A committee will be constituted by the Vice-Chancellor to examine the cases of proposed 
gold medal winners. A brief report will be presented by the committee with comments on 
their behavior, discipline, percentage of each semester, completion of courses and other 
requirements for the degree, etc. to the Vice-Chancellor for approval, prior to announcing 
the award of medals. No student shall, however, be eligible for the award of medal in case 
of ever indulging in an act of indiscipline, failed in any course, or detained. Further, grades 
obtained by betterment, will not be considered for this award.

===== PAGE 91 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
91
Semester Academic Topper Award
The Semester Academic Topper Award is a honor given to the student with the highest 
academic performance in a specific semester. Toppers will be awarded in each semester in 
each program. Number of awards will be equal to the number of batches in that semester. 
Only the previous semester marks (SGPA) will be considered for the purpose of calculation. 
In case of a Tie maximum number of O,A,B Grades in that order will be considered to 
resolve. If still unresolved then younger student as per date of birth will be considered to 
resolve the tie.

===== PAGE 92 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
92
PH.D. REGULATIONS

===== PAGE 93 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
93
1. Introduction
The Ph.D. Regulations provided below will govern the conditions for admission, registration, 
coursework, conduct of the examinations and evaluation of scholars’ performance leading to 
award of Ph.D. Degree. These Regulations are effective for the batches of scholars 
admitted from the academic year 2020-21 onwards.
Chairman, Academic Council of SRU may change any or all parts of these regulations at any 
time.
 
2. Category of Ph.D. Scholars
2.1. Full-time Scholar: All scholars who pursue full-time research in SRU are classified 
as Full-time Scholars.
2.2. Part-time Scholar: All scholars who are working in organizations including 
colleges, universities, industries, institutions and who are sponsored for pursuing 
Ph.D. program are Part-time Scholars.  
A No Objection Certificate should be submitted to pursue part-time Ph.D. program 
from the appropriate authority in the organization where the candidate is employed, 
clearly stating that:
i. The candidate is permitted to pursue studies on a part-time basis. 
ii. Official duties permit the candidate to devote sufficient time to research. 
iii. If required, the candidate will be relieved from the duty to complete the 
course work.
2.3. Conversion of category: 
(a) Full-time to part-time Scholar: A full-time scholar may be allowed by Dean 
Research to convert his registration into part-time registration at the request of 
the scholar and recommendation of the SRC. 
(b) Part-time to full-time Scholar: If a part-time Ph.D. scholar applies for 
conversion of registration into full-time, Dean Research, on recommendation of 
SRC, may allow the scholar on the merits of each case. 
3. Ph.D. Assistantship 
3.1. At SRU we provide attractive and competitive Ph.D. Assistantship for a full-time 
scholar, which will enable them to peruse research as below:
(a) Full-time scholar immediately preceding degree from IITs, NITs, IIITs will 
receive Ph.D. Assistantship of INR 50,000 per month.
(b)  Every other full-time scholar is eligible to receive a Ph.D. Assistantship of 
Rs.40, 000 per month.
(c) In case the scholar chooses to take hostel facility then the full-time scholar 
will be given Ph.D. Assistantship of 25,000 per month respectively. Such 
scholars will have accommodation facilities on campus along with three meals 
a day, snacks, and laundry facility without any additional cost. 
3.2. Ph.D. Assistantship is valid for a period of three years from the date of admission 

===== PAGE 94 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
94
registration. This includes any period of extra ordinary leave, break, assistantship 
withheld period due to unsatisfactory report, assistantship withheld due to any 
disciplinary or low student feedback, medical or maternity leave.
3.3. In certain exceptional cases, six months extension may be provided twice only on 
the recommendation of SRC, Dean Research and the Vice Chancellor in that order.
3.4. For all full-time scholars the first three months’ Ph.D. Assistantship will be on hold 
as security deposit, and it will be released after completion of PhD Degree. However, 
there are two other options that are provided for scholar’s convenience as follows:
(a) Scholar can pay three months of the Ph.D. Assistantship as security deposit 
in advance to get eligibility for receiving Ph.D. Assistantship from the date of 
admission registration.
(b) 50% amount of the Ph.D. Assistantship will be kept on hold for the duration 
of six months from the date of admission registration.
3.5. Scholar after transfer to part-time option will not be eligible to obtain Ph.D. 
Assistantship.
3.6. Ph.D. Assistantship cannot be claimed as a matter of right. The following criteria 
apply to all full-time scholars/scholars awarded Ph.D. Assistantship:
(a) They should provide 8 hours/week of teaching assistance from the date 
of registration.  It can be put on hold/stopped in case the scholar in not 
maintaining punctuality in attending to the duties assigned by the supervisor 
and/or showing below par performance in teaching or Ph.D. work.
(b) They should score feedback of 4 or more than 4 out of 5 from students in 
teaching. If a scholar fails to score this feedback, the Ph.D. Assistantship will 
be on hold and will be reviewed as per the discretion of Vice Chancellor. 
(c) They Should show satisfactory performance in course work, comprehensive 
Viva, Semester Progress monitoring as applicable.
(d) They shall handle at least 1-2 capstone projects of final year batches of 
their respective departments. They should be able to mentor at least 5 UG/
PG students in perusing research tasks. They are expected to be brand 
ambassadors for the university.
3.7. On the 25 th of every month, the scholar has to submit the Ph.D. Assistantship claim 
form in the Sruniv/SRAAP web portal. Failure to do so will lead to non-payment, 
and the scholar can only reapply in the subsequent month alongside the respective 
claim.
3.8. The university reserves the right to cancel the Ph.D. Assistantship at any point of 
time for any valid reason on the recommendations of SRC. If the registration of a 
scholar is cancelled due to any reason, scholars should reapply after fulfilling the 
required norms as per regulations.
4. Eligibility Criteria
Eligibility to pursue a Ph.D. is defined by regulatory bodies (UGC and State Govt.) and 
are updated as per the norms. The following are eligible to seek admission to the Ph.D. 
program:

===== PAGE 95 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
95
4.1. Candidates who have completed: 
(a) A 1-year/2-semester(Or more) master’s degree program after a 
4-year/8-semester bachelor’s degree program or a 2-year/4-semester 
master’s degree program after a 3-year bachelor’s degree program or 
qualifications declared equivalent to the master’s degree by the corresponding 
statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent 
grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed or Equivalent 
qualification from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment 
and accreditation agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an 
authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any 
other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assure quality and 
standards of the educational institution.  
(b) A 4-year/8-semester bachelor’s degree program should have a minimum of 
75% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade on a point scale wherever the 
grading system is followed. 
(c) Candidates who have completed the M.Phil. program with at least 55% marks  
in aggregate or its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system 
is followed or equivalent qualification from a foreign educational institution 
accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved, 
recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under 
a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to 
assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of educational institutions, shall 
be eligible for admission to the Ph.D. program. 
4.2. A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those 
belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/ Differently abled, Economically 
Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the 
Commission from time to time.
4.3. A member of the academic/ non-academic staff of SRU who satisfies above 
eligibility qualifications may be considered for admission to the Ph.D. degree as a 
Part-time scholar provided, they have been given administrative clearance by the 
Registrar/Vice-Chancellor.
4.4. Full-time project JRFs/SRFs, joining and working in SRU in funded R&D projects, 
may be admitted for Ph.D. program, subject to the following:
(a) They should satisfy the above eligibility qualifications and entrance exam 
requirements.
(b) They shall be interviewed by both (i) DRC (ii) and the JRF selection committee. 
(iii) In the final selection, priority will be given to the candidates who qualify for 
both Ph.D. and JRF. 
(c) Such candidates shall be funded through the project grant . In case the project 
gets over, before completion of the PhD degree, the scholars shall be treated 
as Full-Time Ph.D. scholars and governed by Ph.D. Assistantship rules so 
applicable to Full-time scholars.

===== PAGE 96 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
96
5. Selection Procedure
The selection procedure at SRU consists of the following (available on SRU website): 
Submission of application form:  All interested candidates shall fill the online application form 
available at https://admission.sru.edu.in/ along with application fee and upload the required 
documents.  The candidates who meet the eligibility criteria will be called for SRU eligibility 
test and/or interview along with presentation of research proposal on the same day.
SRU eligibility test: 
(i.) Candidates who have valid qualify for fellowship/scholarship in UGC-NET/UGC- 
CSIR NET/GATE/CEED/SET and similar National level tests are exempted from 
SRU eligibility test.
All other candidates are required to appear for SRU eligibility test conducted at SRU. (Note: 
Entrance exam syllabus shall consist of 50% research methodology, and 50% shall be 
subject-specific. The syllabi are available at https://sru.edu.in/schools/phd )
5.1. Interview and presentation of research proposal: The interview for the 
candidates will be conducted by Department Selection Committee (DSC) which 
consists of:
- Head of the Department or Dean of the School (as applicable) as Chairman, 
- All Professors and Associate Professors from the department/School as 
members, and 
- Other members invited by the Head/Dean considering their expertise. 
The candidates are required to discuss their research interest/areas through a 
presentation before the DSC. The interview shall also consider the following aspects, 
viz. whether:
- The candidate possesses the competence for the proposed research.
- The research work can be suitably undertaken at the University/ School / 
Workplace.
- The proposed area of research can contribute to new/additional knowledge.
5.2. The final selection will be made based on the following points:
(a) 70 % weightage for the SRU eligibility test/other qualifying tests
(b) 30 % weightage for interview and research proposal presentation and
(c) Number of seats in each subject/discipline as announced on the website.
5.3. The Dean/Head of the department will forward the list of the selected candidates, 
rejected candidates, waitlisted candidates, candidates not called for test/interview 
due to non-eligibility or incomplete application along with their applications to the 
Dean (Research and Ranking).
5.4. The Dean (Research and Ranking) will seek the approval of the Vice-Chancellor for 
declaration of the results.
5.5. The list of the selected candidates will be notified by email and on SRU website.

===== PAGE 97 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
97
6. Admission
6.1. The selected candidates will be admitted to the Ph.D. program after payment of 
the prescribed fee and submission of the following certificates (in original) for 
verification:
6.1.1. SSC / Matriculation or equivalent certificate.
6.1.2. UG Marks and Degree certificate
6.1.3. PG Marks, Degree, or Provisional Certificate as applicable.
6.1.4. UGC-NET/ UGC- CSIR NET/GATE/CEED/CPAT etc. valid scores, if applicable. 
6.1.5. Passport size photographs (4 No.)
6.1.6. Aadhar Card
6.1.7. No Objection Certificate for the part-time scholars from the applicant’s 
organization. 
6.2. In case of transfer of candidates from other universities:
6.2.1. Candidates who seek admission to SRU from other universities will be admitted 
to the Ph.D. program after payment of transfer fee, along with the semester 
fee. A committee consisting of Dean/Head of respective School, Associate Dean 
Research, Dean (Research and Ranking) will evaluate the transfer documents 
and submit a report to Vice Chancellor for approval. 
6.2.2. DRC will advise about relaxation of the following if applicable after submission 
of required supporting documents:
•	 Course work in lieu of courses done in the previous university, if any.
•	 Maximum time to complete the Ph.D. at SRU, if any.
•	 Number of minimum publications required to submit the thesis at SRU, if 
any.
 
7. Registration 
7.1. All scholars admitted in the Ph.D. program will be required to register every semester 
till the submission of the thesis. The renewal of registration every semester shall be 
subject to payment of registration fees, completion of specified number of courses 
and/ or satisfactory progress of research work recommended by SRC. Scholars can 
register late up to 15 days with different stages of late fee as prescribed.
7.2. A scholar who fails to register as per specified schedule, they will cease to be a Ph.D. 
scholar with immediate effect.
 
8. Break & Withdrawal
8.1. In case a scholar wishes to take a break from the Ph.D. program for a semester or 
more, they may do so with prior permission of the Vice-Chancellor through SRC. 
8.2. The application for break must be endorsed by the SRC. The period of the break will 
be counted when calculating the total duration of the Ph.D. program.
8.3. A scholar may be permitted to withdraw by the Dean Research from all/some the 

===== PAGE 98 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
98
courses registered or the entire semester, on genuine/medical grounds supported 
by a suitable/medical document/certificate from the University Medical Officer/
registered Medical Practitioner. Withdrawal from Semester/PhD may also be granted 
by the Dean Research provided the scholar cannot pursue their studies for the 
reasons beyond control. In all such cases scholars will not get any refund of the fee 
for that semester/period.
8.4. Semester withdrawal will count towards the maximum limit of PhD period.
9. Cancellation of registration
The registration of a scholar may be cancelled in any one or more following eventualities, 
after due approval of Vice-Chancellor, if the scholar:
9.1. Is absent for a continuous period of two days without prior intimation/ sanction of 
leave.
9.2. Withdraws from the Ph.D. Program and the withdrawal is duly recommended by the 
SRC. 
9.3. Fails to renew his registration in any semester subject to the provisions contained 
in these Regulations. 
9.4. Has not reported in time to the supervisor after formal reminders. 
9.5. Does not clear the comprehensive examination as stipulated in these regulations.
9.6. Semester progress is found unsatisfactory in semester as per the regulations. 
9.7. CGPA is below 7.00 at any time while doing course work and continues to be so 
after allowing additional chance as per regulations. 
9.8. Does not submit the research plan/synopsis/thesis by the end of the prescribed/
extended period, as provided in these regulations.
9.9. If the committee established by the Vice-Chancellor recommends revoking a scholar’s 
registration in case the scholar has been found guilty of a breach of regulations, 
professional ethics, misbehavior, or has been involved in unlawful activities.
10. Duration of the Program
10.1. The duration of the Ph.D. program starts from the date of admission to the date of 
submission of thesis.
10.2. The Ph.D. Program shall be for a minimum duration of three years and a maximum 
duration of six years including course work period.
10.3. Extension of maximum of two years (in chunks of six months) can be given based 
on the recommendation of the SRC, however, the total period for completion of a 
Ph.D. program should not exceed eight years. An extension fee will apply for all 
such cases.
10.4. Female Ph.D. scholars and persons with Disabilities (having more than 40% disability) 
may be allowed an additional relaxation of two years; however, the total duration 
for completion of the Ph.D. program in such cases should not exceed ten years.
10.5. Scholars seeking extension should submit the Proforma for ‘Application for extension 

===== PAGE 99 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
99
for submission of thesis along with the fee for the extended period.
 
11. Leave policy
11.1. Scholars should be available all the time and adhere to the academic schedule 
outlined for the Ph.D. program in the academic calendar, including working days, 
holidays, and other important dates for registration, fee payment and submission 
etc. 
11.2. Scholars are eligible to avail leave as below which may be amended from time to 
time by the Academic Council:
(a) Eight casual leaves (CL) and six sick leaves (SL) for every academic year.
(b) Scholars will not be entitled to any summer and winter vacations. 
(c) The leave may be subject to the approval of the Head of Department 
concerned.
11.3.  Female Ph.D. Scholars may be provided Maternity Leave/Childcare Leave for up to 
240 days in the entire duration of the Ph.D. program without Ph.D.  Assistantship. 
This period will be counted in the maximum time required for PhD.
11.4. Special Leave may be granted to attend Seminars/Conferences in India/abroad to 
present research papers, with the permission of Head of the department.
12. Ph.D. Supervisor (s)
12.1. Recognition as Supervisors:  
12.1.1. Recognition as Supervisor for guiding research work will be accorded by the 
Vice-Chancellor. 
12.1.2. The Vice-Chancellor is conferred with special powers to relax the conditions in 
special cases and to cancel or withdraw the recognition status given to a Ph.D. 
supervisor.
12.1.3. Recognized supervisors can only supervise scholars in other institutions, with 
prior approval from the Dean Research and Vice-Chancellor and this should be 
reported in the academic council minutes.
12.2. Eligibility criteria to be a supervisor: 
12.2.1. A permanent faculty member working as Professor / Associate Professor/ 
Assistant Professor / Adjunct Faculty of SRU with a Ph.D., and at least five 
research publications in Scopus archive. In areas/disciplines where there is no 
or only a limited number of peer-reviewed or refereed journals, this condition 
may be relaxed for recognition of a permanent faculty as Supervisor with 
reasons recorded in writing.
12.2.2. A minimum of two years of research or teaching experience after acquiring a 
Ph.D. degree. However, exemptions based on merit shall be considered and 
approved by the Vice-Chancellor and this will be reported in the academic 
council.
12.3. Allocation of Supervisor(s):

===== PAGE 100 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
100
12.3.1. An eligible Professor/ Associate Professor/ Assistant Professor can supervise 
up to eight/six/four Ph.D. scholars, respectively. At any point, the total number 
of Ph.D. scholars under a faculty member, as a supervisor, shall not exceed the 
number prescribed in this clause. In the case to two supervisors, half slot will 
be considered for each such scholar.
12.3.2. The allocation of a supervisor for a selected scholar shall be decided by the 
DRC concerned depending on the number of scholars per supervisor, the 
available specialization among the supervisors, and the research interests and 
preference of the supervisors and scholars.
12.3.3. In the case of interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary research work, if required, 
a supervisor from outside the Department/School/Centre/College/University 
may be appointed if they are well known in their research work and have Q1 
SCIE publication as per JCR reports. This condition may be relaxed by the 
Vice Chancellor in case such persons are not available for specific disciplines/
Research areas.
12.3.4. In specific cases of a formal institutional collaboration based on the MoUs, 
SRU may approve a faculty member as a supervisor for a Ph.D. scholar from 
the collaborating institution if they fulfill the said eligibility requirements.
12.3.5. In case of relocation of a Ph.D. woman scholar due to marriage or otherwise, 
the research data shall be allowed to be transferred, provided all the other 
conditions in these regulations are followed and the research work does not 
pertain to the project secured by SRU supervisor from any funding agency. The 
scholar will, however, give due credit to the SRU Supervisor and SRU for part 
of the research already done.
12.3.6. If the supervisor leaves SRU, they will no longer be allowed to continue 
supervising the scholar; however, in special circumstances, the Vice-chancellor 
may accord permission to continue as supervisor.
12.3.7. Faculty members near retirement shall not be allowed to take new scholars. If 
faculty members are re-appointed after their retirement, they may continue as 
supervisors till the age of 70 years.
12.4. Change of supervisor: Change of supervisor is only permitted in exceptional 
circumstances with recommendation of Chairman, SRC and approval of School Dean 
by paying a fee.)If the change of supervisor is made by the Dept/School due to any 
reasons, then no supervisor change fee will be charged.
12.5. Admission of International students in the Ph.D. Program
12.5.1. Each supervisor can guide up to two international candidates on a supernumerary 
basis over and above the permitted number of Ph.D. candidates.
12.5.2. SRU will decide its own selection procedure for Ph.D. admission of international 
students keeping in view the norms in this regard issued by regulatory bodies.
12.6. Responsibilities of Ph.D. Supervisor: The supervisor is expected to be 
available, guide, mentor and help Ph.D. scholar in research work till the thesis viva 
voce is held. The supervisor is supposed to be fully involved and do research along 
with the PhD scholar. The responsibilities of the supervisor include: 
Submit the monthly evaluation, rating and remarks in the Monthly Progress Report  

===== PAGE 101 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
101
available in the Sruniv Web Portal ( https://www.sruniv.com/) for the work done by their 
scholars every month. 
Regularly contact and supervise the Ph.D. scholars and discuss to see if the ideas are good 
for the research project.
Guiding the scholar about the choice of relevant courses, publication of the research work 
and conferences related to the area of research.
Guiding the PhD student for contacting relevant national and international organizations in 
the area of research for funding and other collaborative activities like joint research work, 
publication etc.
Regular review and feedback of the scholar; Active participation in the assessment and 
Ph.D. defense.
13. Department Research Committee (DRC)
13.1. Composition of DRC:
(a) All Professor of the department
(b) Two Associate Professors from the department (To be rotated every year)
(c) Two Assistant Professors from the department (To be rotated every year)
13.2. Function of DRC: 
DRC will oversee the Ph.D. works in the respective department and Scholar Research 
Committee (SRC) assigned to each scholar for monitoring/mentoring the Ph.D. work 
and progression. DRC is also responsible for maintaining the highest standards of 
quality and ethics in the research being done in the department.
 
14. Scholar Research Committee (SRC)
14.1. Composition of SRC:
(a) Chairman SRC:  Professor/ Associate Professor from the concerned school/ 
department,
(b) The Supervisor(s) and
(c) Two expert(s) in the allied areas of research from the school/ SRU; it is desirable 
that one of these experts is from the school/ department and another one from 
outside the school/ department.
No Faculty should be part of more than six SRCs apart from the SRC of their own 
scholars. It will enable participation of all faculty in the SRCs. In case such rule 
is exhausted, then exceptions can be made.
14.2. Functions of SRC:
(a) To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research.
(b) To guide the Ph.D. scholar in developing the study, design, and methodology of 
research and identify the courses that they may have to take.
(c) To support scholars in persuading research in the right direction.

===== PAGE 102 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
102
(d) To provide any support needed for the scholar to complete their research work.
(e) Each semester, a Ph.D. scholar shall appear before the SRC to make a presentation 
of the progress period for further guidance. Assistant Dean, Research shall submit 
the recommendations of SRC of all PhD scholars in the department along with a 
copy of Ph.D. scholar’s progress report to Dean Research office. A copy of such 
recommendation shall also be provided to the Ph.D. scholar.
15. Course Work
15.1. The Credit requirement for the Ph.D. course work is a minimum of 12 credits, 
including a research methodology course of 4 credits that includes “Research and 
Publication Ethics”. The SRC may also recommend UGC recognized online courses as 
part of the credit requirements for the Ph.D. program. The calendar of evaluation, 
registration, assessment and exams of the course work are given in the University 
academic calendar.
15.2. Scholars who are admitted into the Ph.D. program directly after B. Tech are required 
to complete an additional 12 credits of coursework recommended by SRC.
15.3. All Ph.D. scholars, irrespective of discipline, shall be required to get trained in 
teaching /education /pedagogy/ writing related to their chosen Ph.D. subject during 
their doctoral period. Full-time Ph.D. scholars will also be assigned 8 hours per week 
of Ph.D. assistantship for conducting tutorial or laboratory work and evaluations.
15.4. A Ph.D. scholar must obtain a minimum of 60% marks in each course and a 
minimum CGPA of 7.0 on a 10-point scale in the overall course work to be 
eligible to continue in the Ph.D. program and be eligible for the comprehensive 
exam.If any scholar obtains less than 7 CGPA in course work, they must redo course 
work partially or fully by re-registering the course(s) by making an additional fee as 
per the payment. 
15.5. The maximum duration to complete the course work is two semesters. If a scholar 
fails to complete the course work within the stipulated time, the scholar can take the 
extension for completing the course work after the payment of the extension fee. 
The maximum period cannot be more than two years after two semester extensions.
16. Comprehensive Examination
16.1. All scholars shall take a comprehensive examination after completing the course 
work.
16.2. The comprehensive examination shall be in the form of an oral examination.
16.3. The comprehensive examination shall be conducted by a panel of examiners which 
consists of:
(a)  the members of the SRC 
(b) Two experts on related areas of the work from SRU nominated by Dean (Research 
and Ranking). One should be from the School/Dept and one from outside the 
School/Dept.
16.4. The Assistant Dean Research of relevant department shall inform the scholar one 

===== PAGE 103 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
103
month in advance of the scope of the examination and other relevant details through 
‘Notification for Comprehensive Examination Form’. 
16.5. If the performance of the scholar in the comprehensive examination is satisfactory, 
the registration to Ph. D scholar shall be confirmed.
16.6. If the performance is unsatisfactory, one more opportunity shall be given to appear 
for the comprehensive examination within 45 days of the first attempt by paying a 
repeat of comprehensive examination fee. 
16.7. In case the scholar fails to successfully complete the comprehensive examination in 
the second attempt, scholar’s registration shall be canceled from the Ph.D. Program.
16.8. A scholar should have cleared all fees before appearing for the comprehensive 
examination.
17. Research Plan Presentation
17.1. After clearing the Comprehensive Examination, a notification will be sent for research 
plan presentation and the scholar has to present their Research Plan to the SRC. 
SRC shall advise scholars to finalize research plan. 
17.2. After the Satisfactory evaluation from SRC, Scholar can continue with the PhD 
research as per approved plan. In case the scholar gets unsatisfactory, then scholar 
will get another chance to present the Research plan to SRC within 45 days of the 
previous SRC by paying an additional fee. In case the research plan is not finalized 
in the repeat of SRC, the candidature of the scholar may be cancelled.
17.3. Soon after the submission of the research plan, the minutes of the meeting shall be 
made by the SRC on the approved  from Assistant Dean, Research should send the 
Approved research plan to the office of Dean, Research for records.
17.4. It is mandatory for the scholar to meet the following criteria to start their Ph.D. 
research work and continue their Ph.D. program:
(a) Complete the course work with a minimum CGPA of 7.0.
(b) Satisfactorily pass the comprehensive examination. 
(c) Submit a research plan approved by SRC.
18. Progression
Monthly Progress: Scholars must submit the work done every month in the Sruniv Web 
portal ( https://www.sruniv.com/) for the supervisor to evaluate, rate and provide remarks 
on the progress of their research work. 
Semester Progress:  
(a) All scholars shall appear before the SRC in person/online once in six months to 
make a presentation of the progress of their research work for evaluation and 
further guidance. 
(b) All faculty and other Ph.D. scholars should be invited to attend the Scholar semester 
progress meeting.
(c) Any scholar who fails to attend the SRC semester progress meeting will be 

===== PAGE 104 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
104
permitted to take a second chance to appear within 45 days after payment of the 
SRC semester progress re-conducting fee. 
(d) In case the progress of the scholar is unsatisfactory, the SRC shall record the 
reasons for the same and suggest corrective measures. If the scholar fails to 
implement these corrective measures, the SRC may recommend to the respective 
Dean of School specific reasons for the cancellation of the registration of the 
scholar.
(e) A scholar whose semester progress report is unsatisfactory should pay a fee to re-
appear for the SRC semester progress meeting within 45 days. In case the scholar 
is absent on the day of presentation; then the scholar can also get another chance 
to appear before SRC by paying an additional fee. During the intervening period 
of unsatisfactory progress, the PhD assistantship may be kept on hold. In case the 
scholar again gets an unsatisfactory report during the repeat of SRC meeting, then 
the candidature of the scholar will be cancelled.
(f) On-duty will be provided to a full-time scholar for undertaking fieldwork/ data 
collection/ survey/ any other research work that is mandatory for the research 
work with the permission of the supervisor.
19. Synopsis
19.1. A scholar is eligible to submit the synopsis in the prescribed format if they fulfill the 
following criteria:
(a) Satisfactory completion of the research work and all objectives outlined in research 
plan.
(b) Publication of one Q1 SCIE as per JCR will be essential to submit the Synopsis (one 
Q1 SCIE will be taken as equivalent to two non Q1 SCIE and one SCIE indexed 
journal paper will be taken as two Scopus indexed journal paper; one Scopus 
Indexed Journal paper will be equivalent to two Scopus Indexed Conference papers 
for the purpose of submission only). However, the scholar is also encouraged to 
publish in non-paid good quality top-tier journals and conferences. The publication 
should have affiliation of university mentioned as “SR University, Warangal, 
Telangana -506371”. Part-time scholars can have their institute as second affiliation 
if necessary. The first author must be the Ph.D. scholar followed by any other 
collaborator(s). These publications should have been published and archived at 
the time of submission of thesis.  Only Accepted or submitted manuscripts may 
not be counted. In all the publications that form prerequisite for submission of 
thesis, the PhD student must be the first author. This is not applicable to any 
additional publications that the student may publish. It should be the responsibility 
of the student to avoid publishing paid, predatory, non-archived and low-quality 
journals. Ph.D. Scholars are encouraged to publish in the top 10 Journals of their 
domain area. The publication should have affiliation of university mentioned as 
“SR University, Warangal, Telangana -506371”.After fulfilling the above criteria, 
a notification for synopsis presentation is made that may be open to all faculty 
members and scholars for getting feedback and comments, which may be suitably 
incorporated into the synopsis and thesis under the advice of the supervisor. 
19.2. The synopsis should have been subjected to plagiarism check by SRU-recommended 

===== PAGE 105 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
105
software (Turnitin) adhering to the plagiarism policy of SRU.
19.3. In case the synopsis presentation outcome is unsatisfactory then the scholar can 
again appear within 45 days for synopsis presentation by paying an additional 
fee. In the repeat case if the scholar again gets unsatisfactory report, then the 
candidature of the scholar may be cancelled.
20. Thesis
20.1. A scholar is eligible to submit the thesis if they fulfill the following criteria:
(a) Scholar had completed the synopsis successfully.
(b) Scholar had published required research publications. 
(c) Scholars had paid all the fees in full, including the thesis fee.
20.2. The scholar shall, within 90 days of submission of the synopsis, prepare the thesis 
in accordance with the guidelines and format. The thesis report shall be in an 
organized and scholarly fashion, highlighting the original contribution made in the 
research work of the scholar with a focus on the scientific contribution the work has 
made. The novelty of the work should be substantiated clearly through literature 
review and research gap identification.
20.3. The Supervisor shall forward the thesis to the Dean Research along with a list of at 
least 10 names as examiners for adjudication of the Ph.D. thesis for the viva voce 
examination. These experts should have good publication records (Preferably SCIE 
Q1 publications) and research credentials related to the topic of the thesis. The List 
of publications of such proposed examiners should be attached for consideration.
20.4. Under no circumstances the submission of the thesis shall be delayed however 
under special circumstances, an extension of three months may be granted with 
the recommendation of the SRC by the Vice-Chancellor and the scholar should pay 
a fee for the delayed submission.
20.5. The thesis should be submitted after the completion of the minimum period of 3 
years and before the completion of the maximum period of the Ph.D. program.
20.6. Scholars who are in the extension period need to pay an additional thesis submission 
fee along with the regular thesis fee.
20.7. While submitting for evaluation, the thesis shall have an undertaking from the 
scholar and a certificate from the supervisor attesting to the originality of the 
work, vouching that there is no plagiarism after testing the thesis with a Plagiarism 
software recommended by SRU and that the work has not been submitted for the 
award of any other degree/diploma at SRU where the work was carried out, or to 
any other Institution in the prescribed format. 
20.8. Scholar shall submit the thesis by official email to the supervisor and supervisor 
should submit it to Dean Research by official email.
21. Thesis Adjudication
21.1. The Ph.D. thesis submitted by a scholar shall be evaluated by the supervisor and at 
least two external examiners. 

===== PAGE 106 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
106
21.2. From the list of 10 examiners submitted by the supervisor, the Vice-Chancellor shall 
nominate the two external examiners and two additional examiners for backup. The 
Vice-Chancellor, as deemed necessary, may also nominate examiners from outside 
the panel.
21.3. The Dean Research shall take such steps as deemed necessary to enable the reports 
of the examiners to be received as quickly as possible and keep a record of the 
communication with examiners with dates. All communication should be done from 
the official email id of the institution.
21.4. In the case of undue delay in receiving the report from the examiner, Dean, Research 
shall refer the thesis to the additional examiner selected by the Vice-Chancellor 
after waiting for the due period.
21.5. The examiner shall include in the report an overall assessment placing the thesis in 
one of the following /categories:
a) Recommended for the award of the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
b) Recommended that the scholar does the minor revisions in the thesis as suggested 
in the report, and the revised thesis is referred to the Supervisor for verification.
c) Recommended that the scholar does major revision in the thesis as suggested in 
the report, and the revised thesis is sent to the examiner for revaluation.
d) Not recommended.
21.6. The examiner shall enclose a report of 500-1000 words covering all chapters.
21.7. On receipt of the reports from the examiners, the following procedure shall be 
followed:
a) If all the examiners recommend the award of the degree, the thesis shall be 
provisionally accepted. Any minor revision, modification, etc., suggested by the 
examiners shall be carried out before the oral examination.
b) If any examiner recommends major revision of the thesis, the scholar shall be 
permitted to revise and resubmit the thesis within 3 months with the approval of 
the SRC. The revised thesis shall be referred to the same examiner. 
c) If one external examiner recommends the award of the degree while the other 
recommends rejection, then the thesis shall be referred to a third examiner to 
be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. If the third examiner recommends the 
award, the thesis shall be provisionally accepted after performing all necessary 
corrections that may be provided by examiner. Otherwise, the thesis shall be 
rejected, and the registration of the scholar cancelled.
d) If both the external examiners recommend rejection, the thesis shall be rejected, 
and the registration of the scholar be cancelled.
e) Individual cases not covered by the above regulations shall be referred to the 
Vice-Chancellor for the final decision.
f) In the case of any dispute or extra ordinary situation arising in the process of 
evaluation; the Vice-Chancellor shall refer the thesis and the comments to a 
committee constituted for this purpose with internal and/or external members 
as deemed necessary for the situation.

===== PAGE 107 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
107
22. Thesis Defense Examination
22.1. The public viva-voce of the scholar to defend the thesis shall be conducted by a 
board of examiners constituted by the Vice-Chancellor Only if the evaluation reports 
of the external examiner on the thesis are satisfactory. 
22.2. Viva-voce may be conducted online. 
22.3. The public viva-voce examination board shall include:
a) The examiner of the thesis: If the examiner of the thesis is not available, a 
member from the approved panel of examiners.
b) SRC members of the scholar.
22.4. The Public viva-voce examination shall be conducted as an “Open defense type” 
examination in which all faculty and Ph.D. scholars are invited.
22.5. SRU shall ensure that the entire process of evaluation of the Ph.D. thesis is completed 
within a period of six to nine months from the date of submission of the thesis.
23. Publication of Thesis
23.1. After the public viva voce examination, the scholar shall submit a copy of the final 
thesis as per defined template for online storage duly certified by the supervisor 
that all the corrections have been duly carried out as suggested by the examiners, 
if any, for SRU ARCHIVES. Physical Copies of the Thesis may be submitted to the 
library and/or supervisor for records.
23.2. SRU shall submit an electronic copy of the Ph.D. thesis to the INFLIBNET / 
Institutional Electronic Archive for hosting the same so as to make it accessible to 
all Institutions / Colleges.
24. Research Ethics, Anti-Plagiarism, IPR and Code of Conduct policies
For ensuring ethics, all scholars of Ph.D. should adhere to the research work as per the 
research ethics policy, Anti-plagiarism policy, IPR policy, and code of conduct policy of the 
university.
 
25. Provisional Certificate
Prior to the actual award of the Ph.D. degree, SRU shall issue a provisional certificate 
to the effect that the Ph.D. is being awarded in accordance with the provisions of these 
Regulations.
26. Award of Ph.D. Degree
If the performance of the scholar in the public viva-voce examination is satisfactory, they 
will be awarded Ph.D. degree in the Convocation on the recommendation of the Academic 
Council with the approval of the Board of Management of SRU and submission of “No dues 
certificate”.
If the performance of the scholar in the public viva-voce examination as reported by the 
public viva-voce examination board is unsatisfactory, the scholar may opt to reappear 

===== PAGE 108 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
108
for the public viva-voce examination at a later date (not later than six months from the 
date of the first public viva-voce examination) by paying a re-exam fee. On the second 
occasion, the public viva-voce examination board shall include one examiner nominated by 
the Vice-Chancellor. If the performance of the scholar in the public viva-voce examination 
on the second occasion also is reported to be unsatisfactory, the Vice-Chancellor, if deemed 
necessary, shall refer to the remarks of the public viva-voce examination board, along 
with the thesis and comments of the examiners, to a committee constituted by the Vice-
Chancellor for this purpose and decide. The decision of the Vice-Chancellor shall be final.   
Escalation Matrix
For PhD Scholars the first point of contact for any academic/research queries is Supervisor. 
The first point of contact for any operational/procedural issues is Assistant Dean Research 
of the Department/School.
1st Escalation: If the Scholar is not satisfied with the Supervisor/Assistant Dean Research 
and wants to escalate or reach out to the next level; then they should write/meet Head/
Dean of the concerned unit. 
2nd level Escalation: Dean, Research in case the scholar is not satisfied with the level 2 
escalation response. 
The last level of escalation is Vice Chancellor.
Scholars should wait for at least one week for resolution of their queries/or response to 
their email/concern before going to the next escalation level. 
Officers at all escalation levels have the responsibility to keep the communication professional 
and try their best to cater to the request/issues of the PhD Scholar.

===== PAGE 109 =====
Annexure -I
1. Research Ethics
2. Plagiarism and Abating Plagiarism
3. Code of Conduct
4. Sustainable Development Goals Policy 
5. IPR Policy
1. RESEARCH ETHICS
The Research Ethics Policy in SRU requires all researchers to be trustworthy and open 
with their findings. Each campus has access to the same premium anti-plagiarism software 
Turnitin/iThenticate. Please refer to UGC guidelines for regulations and sanctions regarding 
plagiarism and read about plagiarism and its aftermath at www.plagiarism.org. SRU policies 
highly discourage plagiarism in any form. In addition, the institution provides researchers 
with digital database access to international state-of-the-artwork to ensure that the quality 
of the research is not compromised and that each project retains its own uniqueness in 
terms of the research questions it asks and the hypothesis it tests. The institution also 
supplies all the necessary statistical analysis software to ensure the data is robust and 
the results reliable. All research students are required to keep a proper research notebook 
in which they describe their daily research activities. Each student keeps their data in an 
immutable folder on the network, which is examined and evaluated on a regular basis 
by the research guide. If information in the notebook or electronic folder is intentionally 
destroyed or deleted, disciplinary action may be taken. Similarly, any researcher caught 
manipulating data will face severe consequences, up to and including termination.
1.1. Human trials-based research and other related policy
SRU permit research based on human trials and researchers should note that in India it is 
regulated by acts including The Drugs and Cosmetics Act of 1940, the Medical Council of 
India Act of 1956, and the Central Council for Indian Medicine Act of 1970. The following 
are necessary for starting a clinical trial in India:
 The DCGI’s (India’s) approval is required to perform any such research,
 Ethics Committee Approval in Each Country Where the Study Is Being Conducted
 Registration on the ICMR’s website is also required if the study is cross boundary.
Researchers may note that in 1980, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) 
released the Policy Statement on Ethical Considerations in Human Subjects Research. Rapid 
developments in biomedical science and technology have resulted in the emergence of new 
ethical dimensions, calling for an update to these recommendations. Subsequently, in 2000, 
the Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research on Human Subjects were published, with a 
revision published in 2006. For clinical trials in the meantime, the Central Drugs Standard 
Control Organization (CDSCO) published the Indian Good Clinical Practice Guidelines (2001) 
in 2005 and made numerous changes to the Rules under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act in 
2013. Guidelines for Stem Cell Research and Therapy were originally published in 2007 
by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Department of Biotechnology 
(DBT). SRU and their researchers should follow all ethical guidelines provided in the recent 

===== PAGE 110 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
110
ICMR Ethical guidelines for Biomedical and Health Research involving Human participants 
while performing any such research.
1.2. Research result storage and data archiving
Identifying early on who will oversee archiving and destroying data and samples and 
establishing the methods for doing so is crucial in any research, researchers in SRU should 
focus on data processing with utmost care. Any research partnership agreement needs to 
have terms outlining the necessary arrangements for conducting the research. Researchers 
should keep detailed and precise records of all procedures taken, all permissions granted, 
all data collected, and all conclusions drawn. This is important for several reasons, including 
demonstrating a sound approach to research and preparing for questions about the study’s 
methods and results. Properly maintained notebooks can be used to prove who is entitled 
to what inventions. Data should be stored in a way that facilitates a comprehensive audit 
in retrospect. Backup plans and safe data storage are vital. It’s vital that you back up the 
original files and pictures. This is particularly important when modifying existing data or 
photos for better quality. When editing data or photographs, it is best to keep both the 
original and the modified version. Avoid simplifying or otherwise manipulating images. 
Secrecy is especially important when there is the potential for financial advantage. It is 
critical to have a reliable system for storing and retrieving research data. Primary research 
data must be protected in order to ensure its continued use. Before taking any data with 
them, researchers need to get permission from the Registrar via the department head. 
After publishing, the need to preserve data sources does not go away. All raw data should 
be recorded and stored in numbered, permanently bound laboratory notebooks, or in a 
specially designed electronic notebook. Cross-index the primary record with all ancillary 
materials (such as surveys, chart recordings, autoradiographs, and machine outputs) 
stored in a separate ring binder or folder.  Data should be recorded into notebooks as 
soon as possible after being collected. The data should be uniquely identified by the date 
of record and/or the date of collection. Researchers should regularly have their notebooks 
checked and “signed-off” on by their supervisors to ensure that all relevant data is being 
documented. Regular backups of computer data should be made and saved in a secure 
yet easily accessible location, as on a disc. When it is practical to do so, a hard copy 
of important information should be made. Copies of the necessary software, notably the 
version used to process electronic data, must be kept with raw data.
1.3. Confidentiality in research and consultancy
Principal Investigators and other researchers may be required to take proprietary or 
otherwise restricted data, materials, software, or technology from a sponsor or other entity 
in the course of their work. A Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA), Confidential Disclosure 
Agreement (CDA), Proprietary Information Agreement (PIA), or Confidentiality Agreement 
may be required of the researcher by the sponsor or third party (a firm or government 
body, for example). Any recipient of confidential technical information (such as proprietary 
technology, trade secrets, or source code) is responsible for adhering to export regulations. 
An export license may be needed if the data is to be sent beyond the India or shared with 
a foreign national, SRU researchers are advised to check this well before performing any 
such tasks. It is important to note that export regulated technology does not include non- 
technical information that has disclosure restrictions, such as sensitive financial information, 
company information, clinical trial/human subjects’ data, or demographic information.
Several types of university agreements between the University and the sponsor or third 

===== PAGE 111 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
111
party may include a request for confidentiality as part of their terms. Purchases and loans 
of hardware and software, licensing of intellectual property, data sharing, and material 
transfer agreements are all examples of the kind of contracts that institutions get into. 
The R&D Cell of SRU will be involved in these types of institutional agreements and will 
negotiate terms that are in line with university principles. R&D Cell will also have the only 
ability to sign on behalf of SRU and bind the university to the conditions of any institutional 
agreements they negotiate. An individual at SRU may be asked to sign such an agreement 
by a sponsor or third party in connection with a clinical trial or potential joint research effort 
in which all parties involved have a vested interest. In these scenarios, the NDA is between 
the individual and the sponsor or third party. To avoid having the signature associated with 
SRU, the researcher must sign as himself or herself. Individual researchers who intend to 
sign on their own behalf should seek guidance from the Office of the Dean (Research and 
Ranking), as sponsor or third-party NDAs often contain terms that violate SRU research 
policy.
1.4. Collaborations & Funded Research
Collaboration with external research peers
To maximize research output and research translation to society using complementary 
resources, SRU aggressively encourages cooperation with peers. It is possible for 
institutions from the same country to collaborate with those from other countries. Any 
cooperation conducted through a department or school must have clear parameters 
outlined in an MOU and/or research collaboration agreement. Scholars have the option 
of using an existing Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or proposing a new MoU 
to help further their study. Scholars are free to conduct research at any number of 
different institutions that encourage teamwork.
Funded Research  
SRU’s research efforts are supported by grants and contracts from external funding agencies 
such as state, national, and international governments, as well as industry collaborations, 
consultancy projects, shared consultancy projects, and joint ventures between two 
institutional groups. Research funding is important since it is peer-reviewed and competitive, 
indicating faculty research quality. We advise scholars in collaboration with supervisor/ 
external researcher to apply for research funding.
1.5. Openness in research
The institute recognizes that researchers have a responsibility to protect their own academic 
and intellectual property rights (IPR), but it encourages them to make as much of their 
work available to their colleagues and the public as feasible. Research findings should not 
be disseminated for the sake of promoting the researcher, the institution, or the sponsor. 
After a paper is published, the author is responsible for making   the underlying data and 
materials available to other researchers who contact the institute. However, the use of the 
information and materials, as well as the Intellectual Property Rights associated with any 
publications, must comply with all applicable ethical clearances and consents. The rules for 
getting to and from the institute through public transportation are spelled out elsewhere. 
Publication of research findings are expected to be delayed for an appropriate time period 
due to concerns over intellectual property. Publication delays of more than three months 
should be avoided at all costs. Researchers should exercise caution in making public any 
preliminary findings or work that has not been published or reviewed by their peers. Avoid 

===== PAGE 112 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
112
using email to communicate details about pending patent applications. When available, 
researchers are to adhere to the standards set out by the institute’s sponsoring scientific, 
scholarly, and other relevant professional organizations. Every researcher in SRU should be 
especially cognizant of health and safety standards and data protection regulations while 
performing any research related activities.
2. Plagiarism and abating plagiarism
According to SR University, plagiarism is “to offer work or ideas from another source as 
one’s own, with or without authorization of the source author(s), directly by verbatim 
copying or by usage of any AI software” (i.e., with or without permission from the original 
author). In certain cases, authorization might be provided for the usage of other sources 
through written permission which may not be considered as plagiarism.
Self-plagiarism, a form of plagiarism, can also be committed by reusing one’s own work which 
is published in a source without proper citation to that source. It is considered plagiarism 
in educational content to use someone else’s idea or phrase without properly attributing 
the source of the work. It makes no difference if the source is an accomplished writer, 
another pupil, a web page without distinguished authorship, a website that sells research 
papers, or anyone else as well: Whether done knowingly or unintentionally, claiming credit 
for someone else’s work is considered as a form of academic theft and is despicable in all 
educational environments.
2.1 Forms of plagiarism
Verbatim: Quotations must be marked with quotation marks or indentation and fully cited. 
The reader must know which parts are your own and which are borrowed.
2.1.1 Cut and paste: This type is defined when a person copy and paste the 
content from sources including internet, the list of sources must include references to 
Internet-derived information. Since Internet content is less likely to have been peer-
reviewed, it should be carefully assessed.
2.1.2 Paraphrasing: Without proper citation, replicating someone else’s work by 
altering a few words and rearranging the sequence in which they appear or by closely 
following the framework of their argument to develop another related content.
2.1.3 Collusion: This can include things like working together on a project without 
permission, failing to properly credit third-party assistance, or failing to adhere to 
guidelines for working in groups. You should know exactly how much teamwork is 
allowed and what responsibilities fall solely on one’s shoulders.
2.1.4 Inaccurate citation: Always use the standard format for citations in the area 
one works in. The author should cite the sources not only at the end of the paper (in a 
bibliography), but also within the text itself (in a footnote). Also, one shouldn’t include 
books, articles, or websites in the bibliography or references that you didn’t consult.
2.1.5 Failure to acknowledge assistance: One should provide proper credit to 
any source who helped you while creating your work, whether they are classmates, lab 
assistants, or anyone else.
2.1.6 Auto-plagiarism (Identical submission): One must not develop or submit 

===== PAGE 113 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
113
an assessment-related work that is already submitted either in partial or full, for a 
course or for any other qualification, from this university or another, electronically or 
manually.
 2.2 Plagiarism identification and repercussion
Plagiarism is treated as a serious academic offense and SRU highly recommends its scholars 
to avoid plagiarism. Scholars submitting academic documents should carefully evaluate the 
content to avoid any sort of plagiarism. 
Plagiarism will be verified in all academic documents that is being submitted by a scholar 
during their study. This includes thesis, research papers, conference papers and other 
related materials.
2.2.1 Penalties
An individual enrolled in Ph.D. Program of the University, may be subject to disciplinary 
action for academic misconduct only after all available appeals have been exhausted and the 
individual has been given sufficient time to defend himself or herself in a fair or transparent 
manner. The student, scholar, or supervisor should always be given the benefit of the doubt.
2.2.2 Suggested penalties for integrity issues
The Academic Integrity Committee (AIC) formed to adjudicate the plagiarism and integrity 
issue will be responsible for sort of penalties. They shall impose a penalty considering the 
severity of the Plagiarism.
a. In the case of Level 0, thesis will be passed on as per the regulations.
b. In the case of Level 1, scholar/ student will be asked to revise and resubmit 
within 30 days.
c. In the case of Level 2 and 3 – Necessary action will be taken and will recommend 
penalties as per regulations and UGC norms.
If a thesis/ research paper is found to be plagiarized after the submission, the AIC 
recommends, and the Vice-Chancellor approves the action as mentioned below:
 Thesis will be withdrawn from all the repositories it was submitted.
 A show cause notice will be issued to the scholar and the supervisor.
 Discipline action may be initiated against the supervisor within the rules of 
university.
 If the student does not cooperate, their employer, if any will be contacted and 
informed about the outcome of the action duly.
 University is entitled to cancel the degree/award/credit given for the course as 
per the regulations.
2.3 Failure to acknowledge technical assistance
Authors are expected to give credit where credit is due, whether it is to fellow students, lab 
assistants, or anyone else who played a role in the development of their work. While you 
don’t have to give credit for normal proofreading or the assistance you receive from your 
supervisor or boss, you do need to give credit for any other advice that significantly alters 
the direction or content of your work. The author may be asked to properly acknowledge 
the issue when it arises; nevertheless, there is no penalty for this breach. SRU encourages 
its faculty and scholars to properly credit all funding and other forms of assistance they 

===== PAGE 114 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
114
may have received.
2.4 Use of content created by professional agencies or other individuals
SRU scholars are strongly discouraged from using professional/paid support and should 
neither use expert agencies in the production of their work nor submit material that has 
been written for them, even with the author’s permission. It is essential to your intellectual 
training and development that you conduct independent investigation. This kind of violation 
if found guilty will be punishable equivalent to Level 3 similarity.
2.5 Grievance mechanism
Scholars who have any grievance can follow the below mechanism to get their grievances 
addressed duly. For all the scholars primary contact will be the supervisor who will address 
all the queries and provide resolution. If the resolution is not satisfied, the scholar can 
contact the Head of the Department who will make attempts to solve the grievance. In 
turn, scholars, if he/ she feels that a more appropriate resolution is needed can follow the 
guidelines given in the below flowchart.
2.6. Time frame
SRU will take all possible efforts to handle the grievances with confidentiality and utmost 
care and ensure proper resolution is provided within the stipulated time frame. Although, 
our efforts are sincere, some grievances may take more time than those mentioned above 
in the flowchart; scholars are informed to note the same.
3. Code of Conduct
The scholars of SRU should be committed to upholding the highest standards of 
professionalism, integrity, and ethical conduct during their course of study. This Code of 

===== PAGE 115 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
115
Conduct outlines the expected behavior and responsibilities of all scholars and serves as a 
guide for maintaining a positive academic environment and fostering mutual respect among 
colleagues, students, and the broader community.
1. Professionalism and Integrity: Scholars are expected to 
demonstrate professionalism and integrity in all aspects of their work. This includes:
• Treating all individuals with respect, fairness, and dignity, regardless of their 
background, race, gender, religion, or sexual orientation.
• Adhering to academic standards and maintaining the integrity of research, teaching, 
and scholarly activities.
• Maintaining confidentiality and protecting the privacy of students, colleagues, and 
university information.
• Avoiding conflicts of interest and disclosing any potential conflicts that may arise.
• in their professional roles.
• Complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and university policies.
2. Teaching and Mentoring: Every full-time scholar should take up teaching tasks 
of 8 hours per week as per university regulations. Scholars have a responsibility to provide 
quality education, guidance, and mentorship to their students. This includes:
• Creating a supportive and inclusive learning environment that fosters intellectual 
growth, critical thinking, and academic excellence.
• Demonstrating fairness and impartiality in conducting
examinations and evaluating student performance and providing constructive 
feedback.
• Encouraging open and respectful dialogue, promoting diverse perspectives, and 
cultivating an atmosphere conducive to learning.
• Guiding and mentoring students in their academic and professional development, 
offering guidance and support as needed.
3. Research and Scholarly Activities: Scholars are expected to engage in research 
and scholarly activities that contribute to the advancement of knowledge. This includes:
• Conducting research with integrity, honesty, and transparency, adhering to ethical 
guidelines and best practices in their respective disciplines.
• Publishing research findings in reputable journals and presenting them at conferences 
to contribute to the academic community.
• Seeking external funding and grants to support research endeavors and collaborations.
• Mentoring and supervising students in research activities, providing them with 
opportunities for intellectual growth and development.
4. Collegiality and Collaboration: Scholars should foster a collegial and collaborative 
environment within the university. This includes:
• Respecting the contributions and expertise of colleagues, promoting teamwork, and 
engaging in constructive dialogue.
• Collaborating with colleagues within and outside the department to promote 
interdisciplinary research and educational initiatives.

===== PAGE 116 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
116
• Participating in departmental and university committees, contributing to shared 
governance, and supporting the university’s mission and goals.
• Encouraging a culture of academic freedom, intellectual diversity, and open exchange 
of ideas.
5. Compliance with Policies and Regulations: Scholars are expected to comply 
with all university policies, regulations, and codes of conduct. This includes:
• Familiarizing themselves with and adhering to the policies and procedures outlined 
in the doctoral program handbook, staff handbook and other relevant university 
documents.
• Reporting any potential violations of policies or unethical behavior to the
• appropriate authorities.
• Cooperating fully with any investigations or inquiries related to alleged misconduct.
• Failure to adhere to this Code of Conduct may result in disciplinary action, including 
but not limited to suspension, termination, or other appropriate measures. By 
abiding by this code of conduct, scholars contribute to the overall academic integrity, 
reputation, and success of SRU.
4. Sustainable Development Goals Policy
The university has taken significant strides in addressing the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) by integrating sustainability principles across its academic, operational, and research 
initiatives. Through its curriculum and courses, SRU educates and empowers students to 
become advocates for sustainable practices, equipping them with the knowledge and skills 
needed to tackle global challenges. Additionally, the university has implemented various 
eco-friendly practices on campus, such as adopting renewable energy sources and no plastic 
usage. Further, SRU has integrated sustainability into its academic curriculum, fostering a 
culture of awareness and responsibility among students and faculty. The university also 
collaborates with local communities to tackle societal challenges. By fostering a culture 
of sustainability and emphasizing social and environmental responsibility, the university is 
making a substantial and positive impact on global efforts to attain the SDGs and create a 
more sustainable future. Research at SRU primarily focuses on SDG goals and scholars are 
advised to take up quality research to serve humanity.
5.  IPR Policy
1. OBJECTIVE OF THE POLICY
For the benefit of society as a whole, SR University has adopted the Intellectual Property 
Policy stated below in order to encourage the translation and commercialization of SRU’s 
research findings. This Policy establishes the rules for who owns, how that property is 
protected, and how it can be used for profit by SRU in connection with research projects. 
The report outlines SRU’s expectations for collaborating with industry and business 
organizations, as well as suggestions for dividing the financial rewards of commercializing 
intellectual property.
 Strategic Framework for Research and Intellectual Property Rights at SRU:
i. SRU aims to foster, endorse, and advance scientific exploration and research 

===== PAGE 117 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
117
endeavors.
ii.  SRU seeks to establish legal clarity in research initiatives and collaborations with 
external entities based on technological advancements. 
iii. The policies and procedures of SRU are designed to outline the identification, 
ownership, protection, and commercialization of intellectual property.
iv.  SRU is committed to ensuring the timely and effective protection and management 
of intellectual property. 
v. SRU facilitates the documentation, monitoring, and maintenance of its intellectual 
property portfolio.
vi.  SRU ensures that the economic benefits derived from the commercialization of 
intellectual property are distributed fairly and equitably, considering the contributions 
of inventors, the university, and other relevant stakeholders. 
vii. By making research findings accessible to the general public, SRU aims to enhance 
its reputation as an academic research institution and a valued member of society, 
as well as the reputation of its researchers. 
The IP policy, along with any future revisions, serves as the established protocol or IP policy 
mentioned in the following documents: a) the employment contract for staff members; b) 
the fixed purpose contract for staff members; c) any document involving another relevant 
party; d) the student handbook; and e) any acceptance form or intellectual property 
assignment agreement signed by staff members and/or students. 
The IP Policy is an integral component of SRU’s regulatory framework that governs the 
conduct of both students and staff members. The provisions outlined in this Policy do not 
supersede the obligations imposed by current national legislation.
2. INDIVIDUALS SUBJECT TO THIS POLICY
This intellectual property policy applies to:
a)  All persons employed by, paid by, or under contract with the University, unless expressly 
exempted by contract, including, but   not limited to, full and   part-time faculty   and     staff    
and     visiting   faculty   members    and researchers, consultants, and students.
b)  Students working on sponsored projects and/ or who use SR University resources other 
than for lecture-based coursework or other course-related assignments.
c)  Anyone using the   facilities or resources of SRU, or the facilities of any entity affiliated 
with SR University for the purposes or in the manner described in Section 5 below.
3. DEFINITIONS
“Commercialization”      means    any    form   of   exploitation   of   Intellectual Property, 
including assignment, licensing, internal exploitation within SRU   and    commercialization 
via   a   spin-off enterprise   in   India   and overseas.
“Spin-off’      means   a   company established   for   the    purpose   of exploiting Intellectual 
Property originating from SRU.
“Inventor” means the Researcher who contributed to the creation of the Intellectual Property.
“Research Agreement may refer to Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), Research Service  
Agreement, Cooperative   Research   and Development   Agreement,   Material   Transfer 
Agreement,   Confidentiality  Agreement,   Project   development   Agreement, Joint   

===== PAGE 118 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
118
Development   agreement   by   two    or    more   or    multiple   University, Consultancy   
Agreement  and    any    other   type    of   agreement   concerning research  pursued  
by Researchers  and/  or Intellectual Property created at  the University  in  India and   
Overseas.
“Researcher” means:
i) persons employed by SRU, including student and technical staff
ii) students, including graduate and   postgraduate students of SRU
iii) any persons, including visiting scientists who use SRU resources in India or overseas 
and who perform any research task at SRU or otherwise participate in any research project 
administered by SRU, including those funded by external sponsors in India and overseas
“Visiting Researcher’ means an individual having an association with SRU without being 
either employees or students.  It includes academic visitors, individuals with honorary 
appointments in the University and overseas staff.
“University resources” means any form of funds, facilities or resources, including equipment, 
consumables and   human resources provided by SRU either in a direct or indirect way.
“Copyrighted    works”    means and includes literary, scientific and   art works, including 
academic publications, scholarly books, articles, lectures, musical compositions, films, 
architectural work, presentations, photography, cinematography, and   other materials, 
including software, which qualify for protection under the copyright law.
“Intellectual    Property”   means   works related   to   Patents, Trademarks, Design, Copyright, 
industrial   designs, trade secrets, plant varieties and includes inventions, technologies, 
developments, improvements, materials, compounds, processes and   all other research 
results and tangible research properties, including software and other copyrighted works.
“Intellectual Property Rights” (IP Rights) means ownership and associated rights   relating 
to Intellectual Property,  including patents, designs,  trademarks, topography  rights,  know-
how,  trade  secrets  and all other  intellectual  or  industrial  property rights  as  well as  
copyrights, either registered  or  unregistered  and   including  applications  or  rights  to  
apply for them  and   together  with all  extensions  and   renewals  of  them,  and   in  
each and every case all  rights or  forms of protection having equivalent or  similar effect 
anywhere in  the  world.
4. OVERVIEW OF THE IP SYSTEM IN INDIA
India has made definite strides in the protection, administration, management and    
enforcement of IP. The growth of the IP system has acquired a palpable vibrancy during the   
last    two   decades.   The statutes governing different kinds  of IP in  India   are  Trade  
Marks Act,  1999; Patents Act,  1970  (as  amended  in  2005); Copyright Act, 1957 (as  
amended  in  2012); Designs Act, 2000; Geographical   Indications   of  Goods  (Registration  
and Protection)  National IPR  Policy (First Draft) December  19,  2014   Confidential Page   3 
of 29 Act, 1999; Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Act, 2001;  Semiconductor  
Integrated  Circuits  Layout-Design  Act,  2000   and Biological Diversity Act,  2002.
5. TYPES OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO THIS POLICY
This policy applies to all types of intellectual property, including but not limited to any 
invention, discovery, creation, know-how, trade secret, technology, scientific or technological 
development, mask work, trademark, research data, work of authorship, and computer 

===== PAGE 119 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
119
software, regardless of whether they are subject to protection.
6. SCOPE OF THIS   POLICY
i)  This policy will apply to all researchers who have a legal relationship with SRU that 
binds them to this Policy. A legal connection like this can form as a result of a legislation, a 
collective agreement, or an individual agreement.
ii)  This policy shall apply to all Intellectual Property created at SRU and all IP -Rights 
associated with them.
iii) The present Policy shall not apply in cases in which the researcher entered into    an 
explicit arrangement to the contrary with SRU, or SRU previously entered into an agreement 
with a third-party concerning rights and obligations set out in this Policy.
7. IPR POLICY   COMMITTEE  
1 Registrar                              - Chairman
2 Dean Research & Ranking   - Member  
3 All School Dean    - Member 
4 IP Nation, New Delhi    - Patent Legal Advisor
5 Dr. Mohit Gambhir, Verispire  - IPR Legal Advisor 
Members of the IPR Policy committee will be expected to review and analyze proposals 
presented as well as IP created at SRU. New ideas will be safeguarded as a result of this. 
The IPR Policy committee’s composition is subject to change at the discretion of the Vice-
Chancellor. 
The IPR policy committee may hold meetings, undertake an awareness programme about 
IP on a project, and be asked to attend committee meetings as needed.
Members of the IPR Policy Committee will be expected to indicate their interest in a proposal, 
if one exists, and to refrain from participating in any discussions about it. 
The significance of obtaining adequate expert support from outside sources is acknowledged. 
These resources will be used by the IPR Policy Committee as needed. 
The Committee shall call a meeting whenever a change in the committee is required, and 
a specific resolution as well as minutes of the meetings shall be documented and kept for 
any such action.
Role   of IPR   Policy   Committee    members:
•	 Indulgence and IP application processing. 
•	 Determining the market value of intellectual property (IP) and/or creations 
•	 In compliance with university laws and regulations, defining IP agreements with 
industry on collaborative research initiatives. For this aim, the committee may even 
propose a unique procedure. 
•	 Enabling people participating in the commercialization of their research/work to 
receive a fair and equitable return in accordance with university procedural laws. 
•	 Provide suggestions for third-party negotiators in sustainable IPR projects. 
•	 Ensure that personnel involved in developing and submitting IPRs receive a reasonable 
financial return. 

===== PAGE 120 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
120
•	 Assignment, licensing, franchising, and transfer of IPR rights in on-going, pending, 
or any other IPR works to any person, firm in India or outside, if necessary, in 
collaboration with university special committee nominated by the Vice-Chancellor for 
this exclusive purpose.
8. LEGAL ISSUES CONCERNING THE STATUS OF RESEARCHERS
Before beginning any research activity, students of SRU will be required to sign an agreement 
to be bound by this Policy. 
The person exercising employment authority on behalf of SRU must ensure that any 
employment contract or other agreement establishing any sort of work relationship between 
SRU, and the Researcher includes a clause bringing the Researcher under the Policy’s 
jurisdiction. 
I. Before beginning any research activity, students of SRU will be required to sign an 
agreement to be bound by this Policy. 
II. Upon registration, postgraduate students enrolled in research doctoral programmes 
must sign an agreement to be bound by this Policy. 
III. Before commensuration with SRU, the person authorized to enter into an agreement 
on SRU’s behalf shall ensure that Researchers not employed by SRU, including 
Visiting Researchers, sign an agreement to be bound by this Policy and an assignment 
agreement in respect of ownership of IP created by them in the course of their 
activities that arise from their association with SRU. 
IV. This Policy’s rights and obligations will survive any termination of enrolment or 
employment with SRU.
9. OWNERSHIP OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
i)   Employees of SRU
1) All intellectual property rights invented, made, or created by a SRU employee or student 
in the course of his or her duties and activities of employment will normally belong to SRU. 
2) If a SRU employee creates Intellectual Property outside of the normal course of his or 
her duties with significant use of University Resources, he or she is deemed to have agreed 
to transfer the IP Rights in such Intellectual Property to SRU in exchange for the use of 
University Resources. 
ii)  Employees pursuing research activities at other institutions
1) An agreement between SRU and the other University governs rights to Intellectual 
Property developed during an academic visit by an employee of SRU to another University. 
Unless otherwise specified in an agreement, the IP developed during the visit belongs to 
the other University if the SRU’s IP Rights are not impaired. 
iii) Non-employee
1) Visiting Researchers must transfer any Intellectual Property they produce in the course 
of their activities arising from their affiliation with SRU to the University. For the purposes 
of this Policy, such individuals will be treated as SRU employees. 
iv) Students
Students who are not employed by SRU retain ownership of all Intellectual Property and 
related IP Rights created during their studies. The following exceptions, however, will apply.

===== PAGE 121 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
121
1) SRU will claim ownership of all Intellectual Property developed by postgraduate (doctoral) 
students in the course of their study. 
2) Students will be offered the option of assigning IP Rights to SRU and will be given the 
same rights as any employee Inventor as outlined in this Policy. Students should follow the 
procedures outlined in this Policy in these situations. 
3) Regardless of the use of University Resources, all rights in Copyrighted Works are owned 
by their creators. 
4) If SRU is unable to exploit any Intellectual Property to which it has a claim, it must notify 
the Inventor as soon as possible (s). At least one month prior to any conduct or intentional 
omission that could jeopardize the ability to acquire protection, the notification must be 
made. The Inventor(s) will have the option to purchase related IP Rights in such cases; 
however, SRU will be entitled to a share of the income from any subsequent exploitation 
of the Intellectual Property to the extent that SRU’s verified expenditures in connection 
with the protection and commercialization of such IP are equal to or greater than SRU’s 
verified expenditures in connection with such IP protection and commercialization. SRU may 
alternatively request a perpetual non-exclusive royalty-free license for research purposes, 
with no right of commercial exploitation or sub-licensing. On a case-by-case basis, SRU 
may be entitled to a portion of any net income created by the Inventor(s) as a result of 
the commercialization of the Intellectual Property. SRU will not unduly withhold or delay an 
assignment of IP Rights to the Inventor(s); but it has the right to postpone exploitation if 
it is in its best interests. 
5) Any requests for SRU to transfer rights to the Inventors(s) or any other third party 
should be directed first to SRU’s IPR Policy Committee.
10. CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND CONFIDENTIALITY
i) As an employee of SRU, a Researcher’s primary commitment of time and intellectual 
contributions should be to SRU’s educational, research, and academic programmes. 
ii) Unauthorized use of a business secret that could harm or jeopardize SRU’s lawful financial, 
commercial, or market interests qualifies as a business secret. When communicating with 
third parties, researchers must take all reasonable precautions to ensure confidentiality. 
iii) Researchers must quickly report any possible or current conflict of interest to SRU’s IPR 
Policy Committee in order to establish a satisfactory solution for all parties involved. 
iv) If there is any doubt about a conflict of interest or confidentiality issue, researchers 
should consult the person or members of the IPR Policy Committee.
11. IDENTIFICATION, DISCLOSURE AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
i) SRU encourages its researchers to find research outcomes that have the potential to 
be commercialized and that can help SRU’s reputation by bringing them to the public’s 
attention. 
ii) Before publishing any draught publications containing scientific results, researchers must 
present them in writing to the relevant Head of Department and state in writing that, to the 
best of their knowledge, such works do not contain any results for which protection can be 
obtained or which can be exploited in any way. 
iii) Researchers, including staff, students, and Visiting Researchers, must disclose all 

===== PAGE 122 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
122
Intellectual Property that falls within the scope of the agreement. 
iv) SRU IPR Policy Committee to be in charge of protecting and commercializing SRU’s 
intellectual property. However, the inventor(s) must be consulted at every stage of the 
method. 
Inventors are expected to disclose all potentially exploitable Intellectual Property as soon 
as they become aware of it, because the protection and successful commercialization of 
Intellectual Property may rely on fast and efficient administration. The disclosure must be 
made in writing by completing the Intellectual Property Disclosure Form, which can be 
obtained from SRU’s Research Office. 
vi) If the disclosure is incomplete, the form may be returned to the inventor(s) with a 
request for additional information. The date of disclosure is the day when SRU’s Research 
Office gets the full disclosure signed by all Inventors. 
vii) If an Inventor is unsure whether an Intellectual Property comes within the scope or 
is potentially economically exploitable, the Inventor should submit a disclosure to SRU’s 
Research Office for review before making the Intellectual Property public. 
viii) If the disclosure is incomplete, the form may be returned to the Inventor(s) with a 
request for additional information. The date of disclosure is the day when SRU’s Research 
Office gets the full disclosure signed by all Inventors. 
ix) Premature disclosure may jeopardize intellectual property protection and commercialization. 
Researchers must make reasonable attempts to identify Intellectual Property early in the 
research process and examine the implications of any public disclosure to avoid any possible 
benefits being lost. 
x) All disclosures must be reported to the relevant Head of Department by the Research 
Office. A brief description of the Intellectual Property as well as the name of the Inventor 
are included in the notification (s). 
xi) SRU’s IPR Policy Committee is responsible for determining if any agreements provide 
for the sharing of IP Rights or other obligations that are in addition to those outlined in 
this policy. Provisions of related Research Agreements may require   the assignment of 
certain IP rights in full or in part. In case of assignment, the procedure for protection and 
commercialization shall be governed by a separate agreement concluded between SRU and 
other concerned parties. In all other cases the procedure set out in this Policy shall apply.
xii) Following the date of disclosure, SRU shall promptly begin evaluating the Intellectual 
Property through the person or department selected by SRU. A pre-evaluation will be 
carried out as a first step to identify any major hurdles that may obstruct the protection and 
commercialization of the Intellectual Property. A recommendation on whether to protect 
and exploit the Intellectual Property should be sent to the person or committee making the 
final decision on behalf of SRU based on the results of the pre-evaluation. Within one week 
after the date of disclosure, such a recommendation must be forwarded. The final decision 
must be made within 10 days of the disclosure date Research Office.
xiii) IPR Policy Committee shall appoint a person or department to conduct a comprehensive 
examination of the Intellectual Property, with a focus on possible methods of Intellectual 
Property protection and business opportunities. 
xiv) The Inventor(s) must be notified of the decision in writing within 7 days of the decision 
date. If SRU decides not to commercialize the Intellectual Property that has been revealed. 

===== PAGE 123 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
123
xv) The Inventor(s) must work closely with SRU’s Research Office, the patent attorney, and 
any other professional specialists engaged. By sharing information, attending meetings, and 
advising on development, inventors are obligated to provide reasonable help in preserving 
and commercially developing the Intellectual Property. 
xvi) As part of the review process, IPR Policy Committee and the Inventor(s) must jointly 
identify an appropriate commercialization strategy within 3 weeks or 30 days, whichever 
comes first from the date of Research Office decision. The plan will lay out the responsibilities 
of each entity involved in the commercialization process and set timelines for certain actions. 
xvii) SRU’s IPR Policy Committee is responsible for carrying out the commercialization 
strategy, and it must present specific proposals, such as draught agreements or business 
plans, to SRU’s Vice-Chancellor for approval. 
xviii) Commercial decisions, such as the conditions of an assignment/licensing agreement 
or the development of a spin-off firm, shall be made on a case-by-case basis by IPR Policy 
Committee taking into account all circumstances. 
xix) Shall apply if SRU decides to stop, withdraw, or not maintain a granted or registered 
right. SRU will nominate a person or committee to make such decisions. 
xx) SRU is responsible for all expenses incurred in connection with the protection and 
commercialization of Intellectual Property. 
xxi) Under a confidentiality agreement, the entire description of the Intellectual Property 
will be revealed to third parties during the evaluation and commercialization period.
12. RECORDING AND MAINTENANCE OF SRU’S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY    
PORTFOLIO
i) SRU’s Research Office is responsible for maintaining accounting records for each Intellectual 
Property. The office is responsible for ensuring that the Intellectual Property is recorded in 
accounting records, that any costs spent are paid on time, and that exploitation income are 
distributed. 
ii) SRU’s Research Office is responsible for keeping accurate and detailed records of SRU’s 
Intellectual Property. It will keep track of payment deadlines for duties connected to the 
upkeep of protected intellectual property and will notify SRU’s IPR Policy Committee as 
soon as possible.
13. DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES, MOTIVATION OF RESEARCHERS
i) The apportionment of net income arising from the exploitation of any intellectual property, 
whether this accrues directly to SRU or as a result of royalty or similar payments, will be 
on the scale set out below, subject to the signing of a confirmatory Assignment from the 
inventors.  SRU reserves the   right to modify this in cases where it becomes necessary to 
do so, and can be fully justified, subject to approval by the Vice-Chancellor.
ii) The term “net revenue” refers to all license fees, royalties, and other payments received 
by SRU as a result of the commercialization of Intellectual Property, less any expenses 
incurred in connection with SRU’s protection and commercialization of Intellectual Property. 
iii) In some cases, SRU reserves the right to negotiate special revenue distribution terms, 
such as when income is generated through the sale of shares or the payment of a dividend 
on shares allocated to SRU in an entity to which the Intellectual Property is licensed or 
assigned but which is not a spin-off enterprise. 

===== PAGE 124 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
124
iv) If there are many Inventors, the Inventor’s share is divided among them in a proportion 
that matches their respective contributions as stated in the signed Invention-Disclosure 
Form. 
v) In the case of trademark and other indicator exploitation, the Inventor(s) may profit from 
the revenue as set forth in an individual agreement, taking into account the proportion of 
their participation to the exploitation. Such matters will be decided on a case-by-case basis 
by SRU’s IPR Policy Committee. 
vi) In the event that a spin-off company is formed, an individual stock share agreement 
between SRU and the Inventor(s) must be reached. The terms of the agreement will be 
negotiated on an individual basis, taking into account the Inventors’ contribution to any 
further development and exploitation beyond the creation of Intellectual Property, as well 
as any funding provided by the Inventor(s), SRU, or any third parties acquiring a share 
of equity in the new venture. The IPR Policy Committee on behalf of SRU will make the 
decision about the conditions of a spin-off establishment.
14. BREACH   OF THE RULES   OF THIS   POLICY
Members of the IPR Policy Committee will be in charge of dealing with any violations of this 
policy. Breach of this Policy’s terms will be dealt with through SRU’s customary processes, 
which are laid out in accordance with the applicable legal regulations.
I5. DISPUTE AND APPEALS
In the first instance, any conflicts must be resolved amicably by the IPR Policy Committee. 
One week after the concern is submitted, a decision will be made. In addition to the 
foregoing, the relevant sections of law shall apply to any legal issue arising in connection 
with the rules of this Policy.
16.  FILING AFFILIATION : All IPR filings should have affiliation of university mentioned 
as “SR University, Warangal, Telangana -506371”

===== PAGE 125 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
125
SR UNIVERSITY
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
R23 Proposed Course Structure-EEE
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE301ES101 Fundamentals of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering
3 0 2 4
2 23EN301HS102 Language Skills 3 0 2 4
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-I 3 0 6 6
4 Basic Science Elective-I 3 1 2 5
5 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I
1 0 0 1
Total 13 1 12 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE300PC101 Electrical Power Generation 3 0 0 3
2 23CH200BS102 Environment and Sustainability 2 0 0 2
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-II 2 0 6 5
4 Mathematics Electives-I 3 0 2 4
5 Mathematics Electives-II 3 0 2 4
Total 13 0 12 19
6 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE311PC201 Electrical Circuits and Modeling 3 1 2 5
2 23EE301PC202 Digital and Analog Electronics 3 0 2 4
3 23EE310PC203 Power Transmission Systems 3 1 0 4
4 23EE402PC204 DC Machines and Transformers 4 0 4 6
5 Specialization Core-I 3 0 2 4
6 Mathematics Electives-III 3 0 2 4
Total 19 2 12 27
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE401PC205 Control Systems Engineering 4 0 2 5

===== PAGE 126 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
126
2 23EE402PC206 AC Rotating Machines 4 0 4 6
3 23EE401PC207 Power Electronics 4 0 2 5
5 Specialization Core-II 3 0 2 4
4 Career Readiness Elective-I 1 0 4 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II
1 0 0 1
Total 17 0 16 25
6 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-II
0 0 2 1
V SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE311PC301 Computer Methods in Power Systems 3 1 2 5
2 23EE010PR301 Seminar on Advanced Technologies 0 1 0 1
1 23EE010PR302 Under Graduate Research in Electrical 
Engineering
0 1 0 1
3 23EC301PC302 Microcontrollers and Applications 3 0 2 4
4 Program Elective-I 2 0 2 3
5 Specialization Elective-I 2 0 2 3
6 Career Readiness Elective-II 1 0 4 3
7 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3
Total 14 3 12 23
VI SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
2 Program Elective-II 2 0 2 3
3 Specialization Elective-II 2 0 2 3
4 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-III
3 0 2 4
6 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3
7 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3
Total 13 0 6 16
VII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE009PR401 Capstone Project 0 0 18 9
2 Program Elective-III 2 0 2 3
3 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3
or

===== PAGE 127 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
127
1 23EE015PR401 Industrial Project/R&D Project/Industry 
Internship/Start-up/Externship
0 0 30 15
Total 0 0 15
VIII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE015PR402 Industrial Project/R&D Project/ Industry 
Internship/Start-up/Externship
- - 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Total 160
Program Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE300PE101 Advances in Transmission and Distribution 3 0 0 3
2 23EE300PE102 High Voltage Engineering 3 0 0 3
3 23EE201PE103 Power Semiconductor Drives 2 0 2 3
4 23EE201PE104 Machine Learning optimization 2 0 2 3
5 23EE300PE105 Restructured Power Systems 3 0 0 3
6 23EE300PE106 Power System Protection 3 0 0 3
7 23EE300PE107 Signals and Systems 3 0 0 3
8 23EE300PE108 Optimization Techniques 3 0 0 3
9 23EE300PE109 Robotics 3 0 0 3
10 23EE300PE110 Digital Signal Processing 3 0 0 3
11 23EE201PE111 Communication Systems 2 0 2 3
12 23EE201PE112 VLSI Systems 2 0 2 3
13 23EE201PE113 Embedded Systems 2 0 2 3
Electric Mobility Specialization Core Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE301SC101 Basics of Electric Vehicle Systems 3 0 2 4
2 23EE301SC102 EV Power Train and Drives 3 0 2 4
Electric Mobility Specialization Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE201SE103 Energy Storage and Battery Management 
Systems
2 0 2 3
2 23EE201SE104 EV Charging techniques and Protocols 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 128 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
128
3 23EE201SE105 Control Systems for EV 2 0 2 3
4 23EE201SE106 Automobile Engineering for EV 2 0 2 3
Control & Automation Specialization Core Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE301SC201 Basics of PLC Programming 3 0 2 4
2 23EE301SC202 Advanced PLC Programming 3 0 2 4
Control & Automation Specialization Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE201SE203 PLC and Human Machine Interface 2 0 2 3
2 23EE201SE204 Virtual Instruments 2 0 2 3
3 23EE201SE205 Digital control systems 2 0 2 3
4 23EE201SE206 SCADA Systems and Applications 2 0 2 3
5 23EE201SE207 Instruments and Transducers 2 0 2 3
Renewables & Smart Grid Specialization Core Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE301SC301 Wind Energy Systems 3 0 2 4
2 23EE301SC302 Solar Thermal PV Systems 3 0 2 4
Renewables & Smart Grid Specialization Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE201SE303 Smart Grid Technologies 2 0 2 3
2 23EE201SE304 FACTS and HVDC 2 0 2 3
3 23EE201SE305 Power Electronics for Renewable Energy 
Systems
2 0 2 3
4 23EE201SE306 Distributed Generation and Micro Grid 2 0 2 3
5 23EE201SE307 Distribution and Utilization of Electrical Energy 2 0 2 3
IoT & AI Specialization Core Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EE301SC401 AI in Electrical Engineering 3 0 2 4
2 23EE301SC402 Fundamentals of IoT 3 0 2 4
IoT & AI Specialization Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week

===== PAGE 129 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
129
L T P C
1 23EE201SE403 Machine Learning in EE 2 0 2 3
2 23EE201SE404 Deep Learning in EE 2 0 2 3
3 23EE201SE405 Programming for IoT 2 0 2 3
4 23EE201SE406 Nature Inspired Computing Techniques 2 0 2 3
Minors (I, II, III, IV)
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
Semester-III
1 23EE310ME101 Electrical Power Generation Systems 3 1 0 4
Semester-IV
2 23EE310ME102 ElectricalTransmission and Distribution Systems 3 1 0 4
Semester-V
3 23EE310ME103 Wind Power Generation Technologies 3 1 0 4
Semester-VI
4 23EE310ME104 Solar Photovoltaics 3 1 0 4
Honors (I, II, III, IV)
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
Semester-III
1 23EE310HE101 Power Quality 3 1 0 4
Semester-IV
2 23EE310HE102 Data Analytics and Cybersecurity for Energy 
Systems
3 1 0 4
Semester-V
3 23EE310HE103 Power System Deregulation 3 1 0 4
Semester-VI
4 23EE310HE104 Grid Integration of Renewable Energy Sources 3 1 0 4
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
R23 Proposed Course Structure-ECE
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C

===== PAGE 130 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
130
1 23EC102ES101 Smart Product Design 1 0 4 3
2 23CS303ES101 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-I 3 0 6 6
3 23CH300BS102 Environment and Sustainability 3 0 0 3
4 Basic Science Elective-I 3 1 2 5
5 Mathematics Electives-I 3 0 2 4
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I
1 0 0 1
Total 14 1 14 22
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EE301ES101 Principles of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering
3 0 2 4
2 23EE300ES102 Network Theory 3 0 0 3
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-II 2 0 6 5
4 Mathematics Electives-II 3 0 2 4
5 Language Elective 2 0 0 2
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II
1 0 0 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-III
1 0 0 1
8 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-IV
1 0 0 1
Total 16 0 10 21
9 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301PC201 Signals and Systems 3 0 2 4
2 23EC301PC202 Analog Circuit Analysis 3 0 2 4
3 23EC301PC203 Digital Electronics 3 0 2 4
4 23EC300PC204 Systems and Control Engineering 3 0 0 3
5 Specialization Core-I 3 1 0 4
6 Mathematics Electives-III 3 0 2 4
Total 18 1 8 23
8 HCE Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
IV SEM

===== PAGE 131 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
131
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301PC206 Linear Integrated Circuits 3 0 2 4
2 23EC300PC207 Electromagnetic Waves and Transmission Lines 3 0 0 3
3 23EC301PC208 Analog and Digital Communications 3 0 2 4
4 Specialization Core-II 3 0 2 4
5 Program Elective-I 2 0 2 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-V
3 0 2 4
7 Career Readiness Elective-I 1 0 4 3
Total 18 0 14 25
V SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301PC302 Microcontroller and Applications 3 0 2 4
2 23EC301PC301 Digital Signal Processing 3 0 2 4
3 23EC010PR301 Seminar in Advanced Technologies 0 1 0 1
4 23EC010PR302 Under Graduate Research for Electronics and 
Communication Engineering
0 1 0 1
5 23CS201ES302 Data Structure and Algorithms 2 0 2 3
6 Career Readiness Elective-II 1 0 4 3
7 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3
Total 12 2 10 19
VI SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 Program Elective-II 2 0 2 3
2 Program Elective-III 2 0 2 3
3 Program Elective-IV 2 0 2 3
4 Specialization Elective-I 2 0 2 3
5 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3
6 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3
Total 14 0 8 18
VII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC009PR401 Capstone Project 0 0 18 9
2 Specialization Elective-II 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 132 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
132
3 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3
Or
1 23EC015PR401 Industry Internship/Research & Development 
Project/Startup
0 0 0 15
Total 0 0 20 15
VIII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC015PR402 Major Project/Industry Project/ Industry 
Internship/Research & Development Project/
Startup/Externship
- - - 15
Total 0 0 0 15
160
Specialization Core
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC310PC205 Random Variables and Stochastic Process 3 1 0 4
2 23EC301PC303 Microelectronics for Semiconductor IC Design 3 0 2 4
Internet of Things (IoT) Specialization Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301SC201 Sensors and Actuators 3 0 2 4
2 23EC301SC301 Embedded Product Design 3 0 2 4
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AIML) Specialization Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301SC202 Machine Learning 3 0 2 4
2 23EC301SC302 Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning 3 0 2 4
Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI)  Specialization Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC301SC203 CMOS VLSI Design 3 0 2 4
2 23EC301SC303 Advanced Nano Scale Devices 3 0 2 4
 Program Elective
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week

===== PAGE 133 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
133
L T p C
1 23EC201PE201 Smart Sensors and Intelligent Instrumentation 2 0 2 3
2 23EC201PE202 Introduction to IoT 2 0 2 3
3 23EC201PE203 Computer Organisation 2 0 2 3
4 23EC201PE301 Hardware Modeling using Verilog 2 0 2 3
5 23EC201PE302 Industrial Automation and Control 2 0 2 3
6 23EC201PE303 Computer Networks 2 0 2 3
7 23EC201PE304 Antenna and Wave Propagation 2 0 2 3
8 23EC201PE305 FPGA Based System Design 2 0 2 3
9 23EC201PE306 Digital Image Processing 2 0 2 3
10 23EC201PE307 Embedded Systems 2 0 2 3
11 23EC201PE308 Digital IC Design 2 0 2 3
12 23EC201PE309 Cellular and Mobile Communication 2 0 2 3
13 23EC201PE310 Microwave Engineering 2 0 2 3
14 23EC201PE311 Satellite Communication 2 0 2 3
15 23EC201PE312 Optical Fiber Communication 2 0 2 3
16 23EC201PE204 Defence Electronics Design 2 0 2 3
17 23EC201PE313 Robotics and Automation 2 0 2 3
18 23EC201PE314 System on Chip (SoC) 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC201PE401 Circuit Design using EDA Tools 2 0 2 3
2 23EC201PE402 Low Power VLSI 2 0 2 3
3 23EC201PE403 Wireless Sensor Networks 2 0 2 3
4 23EC201PE404 IoT System design 2 0 2 3
5 23EC201PE405 Biomedical Signal Processing 2 0 2 3
6 23EC201PE406 Advanced Communication Systems 2 0 2 3
7 23EC201PE407 Biomedical Instrumentation 2 0 2 3
8 23EC201PE408 Analog IC Design 2 0 2 3
9 23EC201PE409 Web of Things 2 0 2 3
10 23EC201PE410 5G Technologies 2 0 2 3
11 23EC201PE411 Radar System 2 0 2 3
12 23EC201PE412 Information Theory and Coding 2 0 2 3
13 23EC201PE413 Green Communication 2 0 2 3
14 23EC201PE414 Power Electronics 2 0 2 3
15 23EC201PE415 VLSI Testing and Testability 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 134 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
134
Internet of Things (IoT) Specialization Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC201SE301 Industrial Automation 2 0 2 3
2 23EC201SE302 Programming for IoT 2 0 2 3
3 23EC201SE303 Security in IoT 2 0 2 3
4 23EC201SE304 Distributed  IoT Systems 2 0 2 3
5 23EC201SE305 IoT Data Analytics 2 0 2 3
6 23EC201SE306 Networking and Communication Protocols for 
IoT
2 0 2 3
7 23EC201SE307 IoT for Industry 4.0 2 0 2 3
8 23EC201SE401 Internet of Medical Things 2 0 2 3
9 23EC201SE402 Design of Smart Cities 2 0 2 3
10 23EC201SE403 Embedded IoT for Wearable Technologies 2 0 2 3
11 23EC201SE404 Cloud Computing 2 0 2 3
12 23EC201SE405 Edge Computing 2 0 2 3
13 23EC201SE406 Flexible Electronics 2 0 2 3
14 23EC201SE407 Innovation of IoT with Business model 2 0 2 3
15 23EC201SE408 Programming for IoT Boards 2 0 2 3
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AIML) Specialization Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC201SE308 Cognitive Modelling for Electronics Datasets 2 0 2 3
2 23EC201SE309 AI in Healthcare 2 0 2 3
3 23EC201SE310 Natural Language Processing 2 0 2 3
4 23EC201SE311 Reinforcement Learning 2 0 2 3
5 23EC201SE312 Ethical Artificial Intelligence 2 0 2 3
6 23EC201SE313 Machine Learning For Robotics 2 0 2 3
7 23EC201SE314 Medical Image /Data Processing using Deep 
Learning 
2 0 2 3
8 23EC201SE315 Advanced Machine learning techniques 2 0 2 3
9 23EC201SE409 Probabilistic Graphical Models 2 0 2 3
10 23EC201SE410 Big Data Analytics 2 0 2 3
11 23EC201SE411 Data Mining and Knowledge discovery 2 0 2 3
12 23EC201SE412 Transformer Neural Networks for GPT 
Development
2 0 2 3
13 23EC201SE413 Human centered AI 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 135 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
135
14 23EC201SE414 Generative Models 2 0 2 3
15 23EC201SE415 Quantum Machine Learning 2 0 2 3
Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI)  Specialization Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC201SE316 Electronics Design and Automation 2 0 2 3
2 23EC201SE317 RF IC Design 2 0 2 3
3 23EC201SE318 Mixed Signal IC Design 2 0 2 3
4 23EC201SE319 Semiconductor Memory Design 2 0 2 3
5 23EC201SE320 Packaging and Testing 2 0 2 3
6 23EC201SE321 Flexible and Wearable Electronics 2 0 2 3
7 23EC201SE322 Low Power Sensor Technology 2 0 2 3
8 23EC201SE323 MEMS and NEMS 2 0 2 3
9 23EC201SE416 IC Fabrication Technology 2 0 2 3
10 23EC201SE417 System on Chip Design (SoC) 2 0 2 3
11 23EC201SE418 High speed IC Design 2 0 2 3
12 23EC201SE419 Network on Chip Design (NoC) 2 0 2 3
13 23EC201SE420 Machine Lerning in VLSI 2 0 2 3
14 23EC201SE421 Clean Room Technologies 2 0 2 3
15 23EC201SE422 Device and Process Modelling 2 0 2 3
Honors
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC300HE301 Sattelite Communication 3 0 0 3
2 23EC300HE302 MEMS and Its Application 3 0 0 3
3 23EC300HE303 IC Design and Verification Techniques 3 0 0 3
4 23EC300HE304 Wireless Communication 3 0 0 3
Minors
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T p C
1 23EC300ME301 Digital System Design Using HDL 3 1 0 4
2 23EC300ME302 Analog Communication 3 1 0 4
3 23EC300ME303 Digital Communication 3 1 0 4
4 23EC300ME304 HDL Fundamentals 3 1 0 4
SR UNIVERSITY
Department of Civil Engineering

===== PAGE 136 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
136
R23 Proposed Course Structure-Civil Enginering
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CH101BS101 Chemistry for Civil Engineers 1 0 2 2
2 23CS303ES101 Problem Solving Using Python Programming 3 0 6 6
3 23PH311BS101 Mechanics and Electromagnetics 3 1 2 5
4 23MA310BS101 Calculus and Differential Equations 3 1 0 4
5 23BM100HS101 Entrepreneurship and Startup 1 0 0 1
6 23BM100HS102 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
7 23EN100HS101 Life Skills 1 0 0 1
Total 13 2 10 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE310PC101 Mechanics of Materials 3 1 0 4
2 ProblemSolving Using Programming Elective-II 3 0 4 5
3 Basic Science Elective-II 3 1 2 5
4 Mathametics Elective - II 3 0 2 4
5 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-IV
3 0 2 4
6 Language Elective 2 0 0 2
Total 17 2 10 24
7 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE311PC102 Strength of Materials 3 1 2 5
2 23CE301PC103 Building Technology and Architectural Planning 3 0 2 4
3 23CE301PC104 Surveying and Geomatics 3 0 2 4
4 23CE301PC105 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines 3 0 2 4
5 Specialization Core: I                                                                                      3 0 0 3
6 Mathametics Elective - III 3 0 2 4
Total 18 1 10 24
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE301PC106 Structural Analysis 3 0 2 4

===== PAGE 137 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
137
2 23CE301PC107 Environmental Engineering and Design 3 0 2 4
3 23CE300PC108 Hydrology and Water Resources Engineering 3 0 0 3
4 23CE002PC109 Architechture and Building Drawing 0 0 4 2
6 23CE010PR101 Seminar on Advanced Technologies 0 1 0 1
7 Specilization core: II 3 0 0 3
8 Career Readiness Elective-I 1 0 4 3
13 1 12 20
9 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-II
0 0 2 1
V SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE301PC110 Design of Concrete Elements 3 0 2 4
2 23CE301PC111 Transportation and Development 3 0 2 4
3 23CE301PC112 Geotechnical Engineering 3 0 2 4
4 23CE010PR102 Under Graduate Research in Civil Engineering 0 1 0 1
5 Program Elective-I 3 0 0 3
6 Specialization Elective-I 3 0 0 3
7 Career Readiness Elective-II 1 0 4 3
8 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3
Total 19 1 10 25
VI SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 Program Elective-II 3 0 0 3
2 Specialization Elective-II 3 0 0 3
3 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3
4 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3
5 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3
Total 15 0 0 15
VII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE009PR103 Capstone Project 0 0 18 9
2 Program Elective-III 2 0 2 3
3 Open Elective-V 2 0 2 3
Or
1 23CE015PR104 Industrial Project/R&D Project/ Industry 
Internship/Start-up / Externship
0 0 0 15

===== PAGE 138 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
138
Total 0 0 0 15
VIII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CE015PR105 Major Project/Industrial Project/R&D Project/ 
Industry Internship/Start-up/Externship
0 0 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
 Specialization  Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
Smart Cities: Specialization Core Courses
1 23CE300SC101 Sustainable Urban Planning and Technologies 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300SC102 Smart City Features and Challenges 3 0 0 3
Smart Cities: Specialization Elective Courses
1 23CE300SE101 Infrastructure and Urban Prosperity 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300SE102 Carbon free Construction Technologies 3 0 0 3
3 23CE300SE103 Principles of Sustainable building design 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300SE104 Infrastructure Protection and Technologies 3 0 0 3
5 23CE300SE105 Green Building Laws and Regulations 3 0 0 3
6 23CE300SE106 Intelligent Transportation Systems 3 0 0 3
GIS: Specialization Core Courses
1 23CE300SC201 Remote sensing and Image Interpretation                                              3 0 0 3
2 23CE300SC202 Digital Image Processing 3 0 0 3
GIS: Specialization Elective Courses
1 23CE300SE201 Photogrammetry and Cartography 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300SE202 Satellite Image Analysis 3 0 0 3
3 23CE300SE203 Analytical Cartography and 3D GIS 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300SE204 Climate Change Impacts on Natural Resources 3 0 0 3
5 23CE300SE205 Technology & Standards for Geospatial 
Workflows
3 0 0 3
6 23CE300SE206 Geospatial Technologies for Regional Area 
Analysis
3 0 0 3
Civil Engineering: Specialization Core Courses
1 23CE300SC301 Estimation and Construction Project 
Management
3 0 0 3
2 23CE300SC302 Design of Steel Structures 3 0 0 3
Civil Engineering: Specialization Elective Courses
1 23CE300SE301 Design of Geo-structures 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 139 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
139
2 23CE300SE302 Computer aided design and drawing of RCC 
Structures
3 0 0 3
3 23CE300SE303 Sustainable Solid Waste Management 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300SE304 Experimental Stress analysis for Civil 
Engineering 
3 0 0 3
5 23CE300SE305 Environmental Geotechnical Engineering 3 0 0 3
6 23CE300SE306 Advanced Transportation Engineering 3 0 0 3
Program Elective Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
Program Elective Courses -I
1 23CE300PE101 Special Concretes and its Applications 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300PE102 Advanced Strength of Materials 3 0 0 3
3 23CE300PE103 Repair and Rehabilitation of Structures 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300PE104 Sustainability in Construction 3 0 0 3
5 23CE300PE105 Composite Materials 3 0 0 3
Program Elective Courses - II
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE300PE201 Construction Equipment and Management 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300PE202 Nanomaterials for Sustainable development 3 0 0 3
3 23CE300PE203 Waste Management - Sustainable development 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300PE204 Environmental Legislation and Impact 
Assessment
3 0 0 3
5 23CE300PE205 Prefabricated Structures and Design 3 0 0 3
Program Elective Courses - III
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE300PE301 Pavement Engineering and Management 3 0 0 3
2 23CE300PE302 Advanced Geotechnical Engineering 3 0 0 3
3 23CE300PE303 Building Information Modeling 3 0 0 3
4 23CE300PE304 Pre-stressed concrete Structures and Design 3 0 0 3
5 23CE300PE305 Experimental Techniques for Civil Engineering 
Research
3 0 0 3
Honors (I, II, III, IV)
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
Semester - IV
1 23CE310PH301 Nanocomposites Design and Synthesis 3 1 0 4

===== PAGE 140 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
140
Semester - V
2 23CE310PH302 Polymer Nanocomposites 3 1 0 4
Semester - VI
3 23CE310PH303 Applications of Nano materials in construction 3 1 0 4
Semester - VII
4 23CE310PH304 Advanced Construction Techniques 3 1 0 4
Department of Mechanical Engineering
R23 Course Structure
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME002ES101 Graphics Design and Modelling 0 0 4 2
2 Mathematics Electives-I 3 1 0 4
3 Basic Sciences Elective-I 3 1 2 5
4 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-I 3 0 6 6
5 23EN100HS101 Life Skills 1 0 0 1
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I
1 0 0 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II
1 0 0 1
Total 12 2 12 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective-II 2 0 6 5
2 23ME101ES102 Product Design Studio 0 0 2 1
4 Basic Sciences Elective-II 3 1 2 5
5 23EE301ES101 Principles of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering
3 0 2 4
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-III
1 0 0 1
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-IV
3 0 2 4
7 Language Elective 2 0 0 2
Total 14 1 14 22
8 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week

===== PAGE 141 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
141
L T P/D C
1 24ME310PC201 Thermodynamics 3 1 0 4
2 24ME301PC202 Mechanics of Solids 3 0 2 4
4 24ME301PC203 Materials Science and Engineering 3 0 2 4
24ME300PC204 Machines and Mechanisms 3 0 0 3
5 Mathematics Electives-II 3 0 2 4
6 Specialization Core-I 3 0 2 4
Total 19 1 8 23
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 24ME301PC205 Manufacturing Technology 3 0 2 4
2 24ME301PC206 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machinery 3 0 2 4
3 Mathematics Electives-III 3 0 2 4
4 Specialization Core-II 3 0 2 4
5 Program Elective-I 2 0 2 3
6 Specialization Elective-I 2 0 2 3
7 Career Readiness Elective-I 1 0 4 3
Total 17 0 16 25
8 24ME001PR201 Summer Internship 0 0 0 1
V SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 24ME301PC301 Machine Tools and Metrology 3 0 2 4
2 24ME301PC302 Heat Transfer 3 0 2 4
3 24ME310PC303 Machine Design 3 1 0 4
4 24ME010PR301 Seminar in Advanced Technologies 0 1 0 1
5 24ME010PR302 Under Graduate Research in Mechanical 
Engineering
0 1 0 1
6 Program Elective-II 2 0 2 3
8 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3
Career Readiness Elective-II 1 0 4 3
Total 15 3 10 23
VI SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 PE Program Elective-III 2 0 2 3
2 SE Specialization Elective-II 2 0 2 3
3 OE Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 142 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
142
4 OE Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3
5 OE Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3
Total 13 0 4 15
VII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME009PR401 Capstone Project 0 0 18 9
2 SE Specialization Elective-III 2 0 2 3
3 OE Open Elective-V 2 0 2 3
Or
1 23ME015PR401 Major Project/Industry Project/ Industry 
Internship/R&D Project/Startup/ Externship
0 0 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
VIII SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME015PR402 Major Project/Industry Project/ Industry 
Internship/R&D Project/Startup/ Externship
0 0 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Specialization Core-I
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME301SC201 Control Theory and Applications 3 0 2 4
2 23ME301SC202 Introduction to Smart Manufacturing 3 0 2 4
3 23ME300SC203 Introduction to Robotics 3 0 0 3
Specialization Core-II
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME301SC204 CAD/CAM 3 0 2 4
2 23ME301SC205 Digital Manufacturing System Design 3 0 2 4
3 23ME301SC206 Robot Motion Planning and Control 3 0 2 4
Program Elective-I to III  
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME201PE001 Renewable Energy Systems 2 0 2 3
2 23ME300PE002 Non-Destructive Testing 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 143 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
143
3 23ME201PE003 Introduction to Factory Automation 2 0 2 3
4 23ME201PE004 Composite Materials 2 0 2 3
5 23ME201PE005 Applied Thermodynamics 2 0 2 3
6 23ME201PE006 Production Operations and Management 2 0 2 3
7 23ME201PE007 Production Planning and Control 2 0 2 3
8 23ME201PE008 Principles of Computer Integrated Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
9 23ME201PE009 Industrial Robotics 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective (Mechanical)-I to III 
1 23ME300SE001 Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning 3 0 0 3
2 23ME201SE002 Manufacturing System Design 2 0 2 3
3 23ME201SE003 Unconventional Machining Process 2 0 2 3
4 23ME300SE004 Power Plant Engineering 3 0 0 3
5 23ME201SE005 Finite Element Method 2 0 2 3
6 23ME201SE006 Hybrid Vehicles 2 0 2 3
7 23ME201SE007 ML in Mechanical Engineering 2 0 2 3
8 23ME201SE008 Mechanical Vibration 2 0 2 3
9 23ME201SE009 Computer Aided Stress Analysis 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective (Smart Manufacturing)-I to III 
1 23ME201SE010 Smart Materials 2 0 2 3
2 23ME201SE011 Additive Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
3 23ME201SE012 Mechatronics 2 0 2 3
4 23ME201SE013 Big Data Analytics for Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
5 23ME300SE014 3D Printing Hardware and Software 3 0 0 3
6 23ME201SE015 Robotics and Automation in Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
7 23ME300SE016 Advanced Digital Technology in Manufacturing 
(Plant Simulation and Robotic Process)
3 0 0 3
8 23ME201SE017 AI Techniques in Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
9 23ME201SE018 Digital Supply Chain Management 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective (Robotics)-I to III 
1 23ME201SE019 Robot Sensors and Signals 2 0 2 3
2 23ME300SE020 Collaborative Robot Safety Design & 
Deployment
3 0 0 3
3 23ME201SE021 Robotic Systems Design 2 0 2 3
4 23ME201SE022 Robot Operating System 2 0 2 3
5 23ME300SE023 Human-Robot Interaction 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 144 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
144
6 23ME201SE024 Building Arduino Robots and Aevices 2 0 2 3
7 23ME201SE025 Modern Robots 2 0 2 3
8 23ME300SE026 Digital Image Processing and Machine Vision 3 0 0 3
9 23ME201SE027 Mobile Robots 2 0 2 3
Courses for Honors in Mechanical Engineering
S.No. Course Code Course Hours 
/ 
Week
L T P/D C
Semester III
1 23ME300HM001 Advanced Solid Mechanics 3 0 0 3
Semester IV
2 23ME300HM002 Precision Manufacturing 3 0 0 3
Semester V
3 23ME300HM003 Advanced Heat and Mass Transfer 3 0 0 3
Semester VI
4 23ME300HM004 Engineering Tribology 3 0 0 3
Semester VII
5 23ME300HM005 Sustainable Manufacturing 3 0 0 3
6 23ME300HM006 Certification Course 3 0 0 3
18
Courses for Minors in Smart Manufacturing
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
Semester III
1 23ME300OE304 Introduction to Digital Manufacturing and 
Design
3 0 0 3
Semester IV
2 23ME300OE305 Smart Manufacturing 3 0 0 3
Semester V
3 23ME300OE306 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
Semester VI
4 23ME300OE307 Mechatronics 3 0 0 3
Semester VII
5 23ME300OE308 Industrial IoT 3 0 0 3
15

===== PAGE 145 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
145
Department of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence
R23 Proposed Course Structure
Semester – I
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23EN301HS102 Language Skills 3 0 2 4
2 23EC102ES101 Smart Product Design 1 0 4 3
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective - I 3 0 6 6
4 Basic Sciences Elective-I 3 1 2 5
5 Mathematics Elective - I 3 1 0 4
Credits in 
Semester-I
13 2 14 22
Semester – II
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS310BS103 Discrete Mathematical Structures 3 1 0 4
2 23EC301ES103 Digital Logic 3 0 2 4
3 23CH300BS102 Environment and Sustainability 3 0 0 3
4 23EN100HS101 Life Skills 1 0 0 1
5 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective - II 2 0 6 5
6 Mathematics Elective - II 3 0 2 4
7 23BM100HS101 Entrepreneurship and Startup 1 0 0 1
Credits in 
Semester-II
16 1 10 22
8 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular 
Elective-I
0 0 2 1
Semester – III
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS313PC203 Data Structures 3 1 6 7
2 23CS301PC204 Operating Systems 3 0 2 4
3 23CS311PC205 Computer Networks 3 0 2 4
4 23CS301PC206 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 3 0 2 4
5 Specialization Core - I 3 0 2 4
Credits in 
Semester-III
15 1 14 23
Semester – IV
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS302PC209 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 4 5
2 23CS301PC207 Microprocessors and Computer Architecture 3 0 2 4

===== PAGE 146 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
146
3 23CS301PC208 Database Management Systems 3 0 2 4
4 23CS010PR201 Seminar in Advanced Technologies 0 1 0 1
5 Specialization Core - II 3 0 2 4
6 Mathematics Elective-III 3 1 0 4
7 Career Readiness Elective-I 1 0 4 3
Credits in 
Semester-IV
16 2 14 25
8 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I
1 0 0 1
Semester – V
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS310PC301 Theory of Computation and Formal Methods 3 1 0 4
2 23CS310PC302 Software Engineering 3 1 0 4
3 23CS010PC303 Undergraduate Research in Computer Science 
Engineering
0 1 0 1
4 Program Elective-I 2 0 2 3
5 Specialization Elective I 2 0 2 3
6 Career Readiness Elective-II 1 0 4 3
7 Open Elective I 3 0 0 3
8 23CS101PC304 Introduction to Cloud Computing 1 0 2 2
Credits in 
Semester-V
15 3 10 23
Semester – VI
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 Program Elective-II 2 0 2 3
2 Specialization Elective-II 2 0 2 3
3 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3
4 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3
5 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-III
1 0 0 1
Credits in 
Semester-VI
11 0 4 13
Semester – VII
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS009PR401 Capstone Project 0 0 18 9
2 Program Elective-III 2 0 2 3
3 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3
Credits in 
Semester-VII
5 0 20 15

===== PAGE 147 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
147
OR
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS015PR402 Industry Internship/R&D Project/Startup 0 0 30 15
Semester – VIII
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 23CS015PR403 Major Project/Industry Project/R&D Project/
Startup
0 0 30 15
Credits in 
Semester-VIII
0 0 30 15
Total credits from semester I to VIII 160
Honours-I, II, III, IV, V (These are from Specialization or Program elective Bucket)
Code Title Pre-requisite L T P Cr
Semester III
1 Subject - I Hons-I 2 0 2 3
Semester IV
2 Subject - II Hons-II 2 0 2 3
Semester V
3 Subject - III Hons-III 2 0 2 3
Semester V1
4 Subject - IV Hons-IV 2 0 2 3
5 Subject – V Hons-V 2 0 2 3
Total Credits
MINORS -I, II, III, IV, V
Code Title Pre-requisite L T P Cr
Semester III
1 Minor-I: 2 0 2 3
Semester IV
2 Minor-II: 2 0 2 3
Semester V
3 Minor-III 2 0 2 3
Semester VI
4 Minor-IV 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 148 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
148
5  Minor-V 2 0 2 3
Total Credits
Specialization Core I &II
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS301PC201 Human Computer Interface 3 - 2 4
2 23CA301PC201 Statistical Machine Learning 3 - 2 4
3 23CD301PC201 Data Visualization and Business Intelligence 3 - 2 4
4 23CS301PC211 Linux Programming 3 - 2 4
5 23CS301PC202 Applications of Data Mining 3 - 2 4
6 23CA301PC202 Generative AI 3 - 2 4
7 23CD301PC202  Advanced Data Analytics 3 - 2 4
8 23CC301PC202 Information Security 3 - 2 4
Program Elective - CSE
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE301 Agile Software Development 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE302 Computer Graphics and Animation 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE303 Introduction to Distributed Computing 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201PE304 Storage Area Networks 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE305 Information Retrieval Systems 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE306  Internet of Things  2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE307 Software Project Management 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201PE309 Augmented Reality 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201PE317 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-2 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE312 Programming using C++ 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE310 Data Mining 2 0 2 3
Specialization  Elective - CSE
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE313 Wireless Networks 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE314 Web Mining 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE315 Scripting Languages 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE316 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-1 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE308 Software Testing Methodologies 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE318 Cryptography and Network Security 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201PE319 Programming Tools and Techniques 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 149 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
149
9 23CS201PE320 Web Technologies 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE321 Mobile Application Development 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective(AI&ML) 
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201SE301 Data Mining and Predictive Modelling 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201SE302 Computer Vision 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201SE303 Conversational AI 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201SE305 Cognitive Services 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201SE306 Big Data Analytics and Business Intelligence 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201SE307 Generative AI using LLM 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201SE308 Deep Learning 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201SE309 Reinforcement Learning 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201SE310 AI in Healthcare 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE322 Geospatial Imagery Analysis 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201SE311 Image and Video Processing 2 0 2 3
13 23CS201SE330 Data Analysis and Feature engineering for 
Machine Learning
2 0 2 3
Program Elective - (AI&ML)
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE323 Natural Language Processing 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE324 Robotic Process Automation 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE310 Data Mining 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201PE325 Data Visualization and Dashboards 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE326 Intelligent Model Design in AI 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE305 Information Retrieval Systems 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE308 Software Testing Methodologies 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201PE327 Introduction to Cloud Computing 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201PE306  Internet of Things  2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE318 Cryptography and Network Security 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE314 Web Mining 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201PE309 Augmented Reality 2 0 2 3
13 23CS201PE303 Introduction to Distributed computing 2 0 2 3
14 23CS201PE316 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-1 2 0 2 3
15 23CS201PE307 Software Project Management 2 0 2 3
16 23CS201PE319 Programming Tools and Techniques 2 0 2 3
17 23CS201PE320 Web Technologies 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 150 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
150
18 23CS201PE317 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-2 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective -(Cyber Security)
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201SE312 Cyber Security with BlockChain 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201SE313 Malware Analysis for Mobile Devices 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201SE314 Vulnerability Analysis in Network Protocols 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201SE315 Ethical Hacking 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201SE316 Blockchain Engineering 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201SE317 Network Drivers and Protocols 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE318 Cryptography and Network Security 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201SE318 Cyber Security 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201SE319 Mathematics behind Modern Cryptography 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201SE320 Digital forensics 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201SE321 Information Security Risk Assessment, Audit and 
Monitoring       
2 0 2 3
12 23CS201SE328 Introduction to Computer Security 2 0 2
13 23CS201SE322 Biometrics 2 0 2 3
Program Elective - (Cyber Security)
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE308 Software Testing Methodologies 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE303 Introduction to Distributed Computing 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE306  Internet of Things  2 0 2 3
4 23CS201PE327 Introduction to Cloud Computing 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE305 Information Retrieval Systems 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE329 Secure Coding 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE307 Software Project Management 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201PE310 Data Mining 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201PE330 Introduction to Block Chain 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE331 Database Security 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE316 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-1 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201PE317 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-2 2 0 2 3
13 23CS201PE320 Web Technologies 2 0 2 3
14 23CS201PE319 Programming Tools and Techniques 2 0 2 3
 Specialization Elective -( Data Science)
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week

===== PAGE 151 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
151
L T P/D C
1 23CS201SE323 Advanced Database Management Systems 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201SE324 Analytics for Internet of Things 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201SE306 Big Data Analytics and Business Intelligence 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201SE325 Data Analysis using Python 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE325 Data Visualization and Dashboards 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201SE326 Pattern Recognition 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201SE309 Reinforcement Learning 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201SE302 Computer Vision 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201SE308 Deep Learning 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE303 Introduction to Distributed Computing 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE334 Social Media Analysis 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201PE314 Web Mining 2 0 2 3
13 23CS201SE327 Semantic Web and Social Networks 2 0 2 3
14 23CS201PE323 Natural Language Processing 2 0 2 3
Program Elective -  (Data Science)
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE322 Geospatial Imagery Analysis 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE334 Social Media Analysis 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE308 Software Testing Methodologies 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201PE327 Introduction to Cloud Computing 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE306  Internet of Things  2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE305 Information Retrieval Systems 2 0 2 3
7 23CS201PE307 Software Project Management 2 0 2 3
8 23CS201PE304 Storage Area Networks 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201PE318 Cryptography and Network Security 2 0 2 3
10 23CS201PE320 Web Technologies 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201PE330 Introduction to Block chain 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201PE319 Programming Tools and Techniques 2 0 2 3
13 23CS201PE316 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-1 2 -2 2 3
14 23CS201PE317 Advanced Industry oriented Cerfications-2 2 -3 2 3
Other Electives
Mathematics Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C

===== PAGE 152 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
152
1 23MA310BS101 Calculus and Differential Equations 3 1 0 4
2 23MA301BS102 Applied Calculus Unveiled 3 0 2 4
3 23MA301BS103 Explorations in Calculus 3 0 2 4
4 23MA301BS104 Matrix Algebra and Computational Methods 3 0 2 4
5 23MA301BS105 Introduction to Numerical Linear Algebra 3 0 2 4
6 23MA301BS106 Linear Algebra and Partial Differential Equations 3 0 2 4
7 23MA301BS107 Linear Algebra and Transformation Techniques 3 0 2 4
8 23MA301BS108 Linear Algebra and Complex Variables 3 0 2 4
9 23MA301BS109 Probability and Statistics 3 0 2 4
10 23MA301BS110 Introduction to Regression Analysis 3 0 2 4
11 23MA301BS111 Advanced Probability and Random Process 3 0 2 4
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS203ES101 Problem Solving Using- C 2 0 6 5
2 23CS203ES102 Problem Solving Using Python 2 0 6 5
3 23CS203ES103 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 0 6 5
4 23CS203ES104 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 0 6 5
5 23CS203ES105 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 0 6 5
6 23CS203ES106 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 0 6 5
7 23CS203ES107 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 0 6 5
8 23CS203ES108 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 0 6 5
9 23CS203ES109 Problem Solving Using C# 2 0 6 5
10 23CS203ES110 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 0 6 5
11 23CS203ES111 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 0 6 5
12 23CS203ES112 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 0 6 5
13 23CS203ES113 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 0 6 5
14 23CS203ES114 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 0 6 5
15 23CS203ES115 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 0 6 5
16 23CS203ES116 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming
2 0 6 5
17 23CS203ES117 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming
2 0 6 5
18 23CS203ES118 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 0 6 5
19 23CS203ES119 Objective C 2 0 6 5
20 23EC203ES120 Problem Solving Using MATLAB 2 0 6 5
21 23CS303ES101 Problem Solving Using Python Programming 3 0 6 6

===== PAGE 153 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
153
Basic Sciences (BS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23PH311BS101 Mechanics and Electromagnetics 3 1 2 5
2 23PH311BS102 Quantum Mechanics and Materials 3 1 2 5
3 23PH311BS103 Modern Physics For Engineers 3 1 2 5
4 23PH311BS104 Mechanics and Materials 3 1 2 5
5 23PH311BS105 Mechanics, Optics and Electromagnetism 3 1 2 5
6 23PH311BS106 Band Theory and Materials Science 3 1 2 5
7 23CH311BS107 Applied Chemistry 3 1 2 5
8 23CH311BS108 Materials Chemistry 3 1 2 5
9 23BI311BS109 Biology for Engineers 3 1 2 5
10 23BI311BS110 Microbiology and immunology 3 1 2 5
Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular (HCE) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23HS001HE201 NSS 0 0 2 1
2 23HS001HE202 Club 0 0 2 1
3 23HS001HE203 Sports 0 0 2 1
4 23HS001HE204 Community Services 0 0 2 1
5 23HS001HE205 Hobby 0 0 2 1
6 23HS001HE206 Summer Internship 0 0 2 1
7 23HS001HE207 Boot Camp 0 0 2 1
8 23HS001HE208 Music 0 0 2 1
9 23HS001HE209 Dance 0 0 2 1
10 23HS001HE210 Fitness 0 0 2 1
11 23HS001HE211 Photography 0 0 2 1
12 23HS001HE212 Cooking 0 0 2 1
13 23HS001HE213 Hackathon 0 0 2 1
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23HS102CR201 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development
1 0 4 3
2 23HS102CR202 Quantitative Aptitude and Logical Reasoning 1 0 4 3
3 23EN201CR303 International Language skills 2 0 2 3
4 23SB300OE319 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 154 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
154
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 Credit
1 23EN301LS101 How Human Languages Work 3 0 2 4
2 23EN301LS102 Content Writing 3 0 2 4
3 23EN301LS103 Tools and Techniques for Creative Thinking 3 0 2 4
4 23EN301HS102 Language Skills 3 0 2 4
1 Credit
5 23EN100LS106 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
6 23BM100HS101 Entrepreneurship and Startup 1 0 0 1
7 23BM100HS102 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
8 23CS100LS109 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
9 23EN100HS101 Life Skills 1 0 0 1
Language Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23HS200LE101 French 2 0 0 2
2 23HS200LE102 Spanish 2 0 0 2
3 23HS200LE103 German 2 0 0 2
4 23HS200LE104 Japanese 2 0 0 2
5 23HS200LE105 Korean 2 0 0 2
6 23HS200LE106 Telugu 2 0 0 2
7 23HS200LE107 Chinese 2 0 0 2
8 23HS200LE108 Russian 2 0 0 2
9 23HS200LE109 Hindi 2 0 0 2
Open Elective 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CS300OE301 Discrete Mathematics 3 0 0 3
2 23CS300OE302 Principles of Operating System 3 0 0 3
3 23CS201OE303 Fundamentals of Database Management 
Systems
2 0 2 3
4 23CS201OE304 Fundamentals of Data Structures 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201OE305 Analysis and Design of Algorithms 2 0 2 3
6 23CS300OE306 Modern and Contemporary Applications in 
Computer Science Engineering
3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 155 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
155
7 23CS300OE307 Emerging Topics in  Computer Science 
Engineering
3 0 0 3
8 23CS201OE308 WebTechnologies 2 0 2 3
9 23CS201OE309 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learning
2 0 2 3
10 23CS201OE310 Cloud Computing 2 0 2 3
11 23CS201OE311 Introduction to Data Mining 2 0 2 3
12 23CS201OE312 Introduction to Deep Learning 2 0 2 3
13 23MA300BS104 Fundamentals of Mathematics - I 3 0 0 3
14 23EC300OE301 Modern and Contemporary Applications in 
Electronics and Communication Engineering
3 0 0 3
15 23EC300OE302 Emerging Topics in  Electronics and 
Communication Engineering
3 0 0 3
16 23EC300OE303 Analog Circuits 3 0 0 3
17 23EC300OE304 Digital Circuits 3 0 0 3
18 23EC300OE305 Principles of Communication 3 0 0 3
19 23EC300OE306 Sensors and Transducers 3 0 0 3
20 23EC300OE307 Sustainable Electronics Design 3 0 0 3
21 23EE300OE301 Electric Vehicle Technologies 3 0 0 3
22 23EE300OE302 Energy Conservation and Audit 3 0 0 3
23 23EE201SE103 / 
23EE201OE303
Energy Storage and Battery Management 
Systems
2 0 2 3
24 23EE201SE104 / 
23EE201OE304
EV Charging techniques and Protocols 2 0 2 3
25 23EE201OE305 Introduction to PLC Programming 2 0 2 3
26 23EE300OE306 Wind Energy Conversion Systems 3 0 0 3
27 23EE300OE307 Solar PV Systems 3 0 0 3
28 23EE201SE303 / 
23EE201OE308
Smart Grid Technologies 2 0 2 3
29 23EE300OE309 Emerging Topics in Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering/ Energy conservation and Audit
3 0 0 3
30 23EE300OE310 Modern and Contemporary Applications in 
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
3 0 0 3
31 23ME300OE301 Modern and Contemporary Applications in 
Mechanical Engineering
3 0 0 3
32 23ME300OE302 Emerging Topics in  Mechanical Engineering 3 0 0 3
33 23ME300OE303 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
34 23ME201OE304 Introduction to Digital Manufacturing and 
Design
2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 156 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
156
35 23ME201OE305 Smart Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
36 23ME201OE306 3D Printing 2 0 2 3
37 23ME201OE307 Mechatronics 2 0 2 3
38 23ME201OE308 Industrial IoT 2 0 2 3
39 23ME300OE309 Renewable Energy Resources 3 0 0 3
40 23CE300OE301 Modern and Contemporary Applications in Civil 
Engineering
3 0 0 3
41 23CE300OE302 Emerging Topics in  Civil Engineering 3 0 0 3
42 23CE300OE303 Environmental Sciences 3 0 0 3
43 23CE300OE304 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
44 23CE300OE305 Pollution and Control Engineering 3 0 0 3
45 23CE300OE306 Smart Cities 3 0 0 3
46 23CE300OE307 Fundamental of Building Technology 3 0 0 3
47 23CE300OE308 Elements of Geotechnical Engineering 3 0 0 3
48 23CE300OE309 Public Health Engineering 3 0 0 3
49 23CE300OE310 Principles of Transportation Engineering 3 0 0 3
50 23SB300OE301 Digital Media and Strategic Planning in 
Technology Markets
3 0 0 3
51 23SB300OE302 Market Research and Analysis for Tech 
Industries
3 0 0 3
52 23SB300OE303 Data Analysis & Decision Making 3 0 0 3
53 23SB300OE304 Business Modelling and  Validation 3 0 0 3
54 23SB300OE305 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
55 23SB300OE306 Project Management 3 0 0 3
56 23SB300OE307 Financial Accounting and Management 3 0 0 3
57 23SB300OE308 Organizational Behaviour 3 0 0 3
58 23SB300OE309 Marketing Strategies and Planning 3 0 0 3
59 23SB300OE310 Micro and Macro Economics 3 0 0 3
60 23SB300OE311 Management Consulting 3 0 0 3
61 23SB300OE312 Lean Management 3 0 0 3
62 23SB300OE313 Social Media Marketing 3 0 0 3
63 23SB300OE314 Startup Launch 3 0 0 3
64 23SB300OE315 Startup Internship  3 0 0 3
65 23SB300OE316 Entrepreneurial Marketing 3 0 0 3
66 23SB300OE317 Entrepreneurial Finance 3 0 0 3
67 23SB300OE318 Understanding Incubation and Entrepreneurship 3 0 0 3
68 23SB300OE319 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3 0 0 3
69 23SB300OE320 Opportunity Mapping & Value Proposition 3 0 0 3
70 23SB300OE321 Business Modelling 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 157 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
157
71 23CS300OE313 Power BI - Business Intelligence for Beginners 
to Advance
3 0 0 3
72 23CS300OE314 Visual Communication and Computer Art 3 0 0 3
73 23CS300OE315 Image Manipulation in Adobe Photoshop 3 0 0 3
74 23CS300OE316 Advanced Visual Organization and After Effects 3 0 0 3
75 23EC300OE308 Design for Social Impact 3 0 0 3
76 23SB300OE322 Digital Marketing 3 0 0 3
77 23EN300OE301 Professional skills for the workplace 3 0 0 3
78 23CS003OE317 Competitive Programming 0 0 6 3
79 23HS300OE301 Introduction to Philosophy 3 0 0 3
80 23EN300OE302 Learning How to Learn 3 0 0 3
81 23HS300OE303 Economics, Politics and Rural Society 
Development
3 0 0 3
82 23HS300OE304 Critical Thinking 3 0 0 3
83 23HS300OE305 sociology 3 0 0 3
84 23CC300OE301 Psychology 3 0 0 3
85 23CC300OE302 Computational Neuroscience 3 0 0 3
86 23CC300OE303 Foundations to Cognitive Science 3 0 0 3
87 23CC300OE304 Cognitive Management 3 0 0 3
88 23CC300OE305 Design Cognition 3 0 0 3
89 23CC300OE306 Computational Methods In Cognitive 
Neuroscience
3 0 0 3
90 23PH300OE301 Game Physics For Engineers 3 0 0 3
91 23PH300OE302 Quantum Computing For Beginners 3 0 0 3
92 23PH300OE303 Space Physics 3 0 0 3
93 23PH300OE304 Nano-Science And Technology For Engineers 3 0 0 3
94 23PH300OE305 Photovoltaics & Energy Storage 3 0 0 3
95 23PH300OE306 Thin Films And Device Technology 3 0 0 3
96 23PH300OE307  Nanotechnology For Energy Systems 3 0 0 3
97 23PH300OE308 Micro And Nanofabrication 3 0 0 3
98 23PH300OE309 Vacuum And Thin Film Technology 3 0 0 3
99 23CH300OE310 Electro Chemistry 3 0 0 3
100 23CH300OE311 Polymer Chemistry 3 0 0 3
101 23BI300OE312 Genetic Engineering 3 0 0 3
102 23BI300OE313 Toxicology 3 0 0 3
103 23NC300OE301 NCC Foundation course 3 0 0 3
104 23NC300OE302 NCC Basic course 3 0 0 3
105 23NC300OE303 NCC Advanced Course 3 0 0 3
106 23PC300OE304 Advanced Industry Certification 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 158 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
158
107 23PC300OE305 Global Experience and Practicum 3 0 0 3
108 23PC300OE306 International Acquaintance and Externship 3 0 0 3
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
BBA23 Course Structure 
 Semester I
S. No. COURSE CODE Title L T P Cr
1 23SB300PC101 Business Economics 3 0 0 3
2 23SB310PC102 Financial Accounting 3 1 0 4
3 23SB300PC103 Principles of Management 3 0 0 3
4 23SB201PC104 Business Communication Theory & Lab 2 0 2 3
5 23SB400PC105 Business Statistics 4 0 0 4
6 23SB300PC106 Business Environment 3 0 0 3
7 23SB201CS107 Information Technology (Lab) 2 0 2 3
8 23SB200SD101 Seminar / Skill Development Course I 2 0 0 2
Total 25
Semester II
S. No. COURSE CODE Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201PC108 Marketing Management 2 0 2 3
23SB201PC109 Financial Management 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201PC110 Human Resource Management 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201PC111 Business Analytics 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201PC112 Environment & Sustainability 2 0 0 2
6 Specialisation Core – I 2 0 2 3
7 Language Elective 0 0 2 2
Total 19
8 Hobbies ,Co-circular and Extra circular 
Elective -1
0 0 2 1
SEMESTER-III
S. No. COURSE CODE Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201PC201 Organisation Behaviour 2 0 2 3
2 23SB001PC202 Entrepreneurship 0 0 2 1
3 Specialisation Core II 2 0 2 3
4 Program Elective - 1 2 0 2 3
5 specialisation Elective -1 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 159 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
159
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I
1 0 0 1
7 Open Elective-1 3 0 0 3
8 23SB102SD206 career readiness Elective -1 1 0 4 3
Total 20
SEMESTER-IV
S. No. COURSE CODE Title L T P Cr
1  23SB201PC203 Business Research Methods 2 0 2 3
2  23SB101SD102 Spreadsheet Modelling and Data Visualization  / 
Tableau 
1 0 2 2
3 Program Elective - II 2 0 2 3
4 specialisation Elective-2 3 0 0 3
5 Specialisation Elective-3 3 0 0 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II
3 0 2 4
7 Open elective – II 3 0 0 3
8  23SB102SD207 career readiness Elective -II 1 0 4 3
Total 24
Hobbies ,Co-circular and Extra circular 
Elective -II
0 0 2 1
SEMESTER-V
S.No. COURSE Title L T p Cr
CODE
1 Program Elective III 3 0 0 3
OPEN ELECTIVE III 3 0 0 3
23SB009PR301 Apprenticeship/Internship/Startup/Externship/
Cap stone
0 0 18 9
Total 15
OR
2 23SB015PR302 Apprenticeship/Internship/Startup/Externship/
Cap stone
0 0 30 15
Total 15
                             SEMESTER-VI
S.No. COURSE Title L T p Cr
CODE
1 23SB015PR303 Apprenticeship/Internship/Startup/Externship/
Capstone
0 0 30 15
Total 15

===== PAGE 160 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
160
Specialisation Core
S.No. Course Code Course Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201SC101 1. Sales and Channel Management 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC102 2. Product and brand strategy 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SC103 1. Financial Institutions, Markets & Services 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC104 2. Security Analysis Portfolio Management 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SC105 1. Personnel Staffing & Evaluation 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC106 2. Negotiation Skills for Managers 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SC107 1. Descriptive Business Analytics 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC108 2. Data Science Concepts & Practice 2 0 2 3
Specialisation Elective I
S.No. Course Code Course Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201SE101 1. Customer Analytics 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE102 2. Digital Marketing Analytics 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE103 1. Financial Derivatives 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE104 2. Insurance & Risk Management 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE105 1. Organisation Change and Development 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE106 2. Understanding Self 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE107 1. Big Data Analytics 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE108 2. R-Programming for Analytics 2 0 2 3
Specialisation Elective II
S.No. Course Code Course Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201SE109 1. Retail Marketing 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE110 2. Pricing and integrated communication 
strategy
2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE111 1. Investment Banking 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE112 2. Financial Analytics 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE113 1. HR Tools and Techniques 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE114 2. Talent & Knowledge Management 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE115 1. Machine Learning and AI 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE116 2. Python – Programming for Analytics 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 161 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
161
Specialisation Elective III
S.No. Course Code Course Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201SE117 1. AI in Marketing 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE118 2. Social Media Marketing 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE119 1. Strategic Financial Management 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE120 2. Financial Modelling 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE121 1. Compensation Theory and Administration 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE122 2. HR Analytics 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE123 1. Data mining and data warehousing 2 0 2 3
23SB201SE124 2. DataVisualization with PowerBI 2 0 2 3
PROGRAM ELECTIVES
S.No. Course Code Course Title L T P Cr
1 23SB201PE101 Project Management 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201PE102 Business law 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201PE103 Global enterprise and competition 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201PE104 Strategic Management 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201PE105 Management Consulting 2 0 2 3
6 23SB201PE106 Digital Marketing 2 0 2 3
7 23SB201PE107 Production and Operations Management 2 0 2 3
CURRICULA FOR B.SC.(HONS.) AGRICULTURE PROGRAM (R23)
Semester – I
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 AGRO-101 Fundamentals of Agronomy & Agricultural Heritage 2 0 2 3
2 ENGL-101 Comprehension & Communication skills in English 1 0 2 2
3 AMBE-101 Agricultural Microbiology 1 0 2 2
4 AGBM-101 Human Values & Ethics (non-gradial) 1 0 0 1
5 SSAC-121 Fundamentals of Soil Science 2 0 2 3
6 AECO-141 Fundamentals of Agricultural Economics 2 0 0 2
7 CPHY-161 Fundamentals of Crop Physiology 1 0 2 2
8 PATH-171 Introduction to Plant Pathogens 2 0 2 3
9 HORT-181 Fundamentals of Horticulture 1 0 2 2
10 AEXT-191 Rural Sociology & Educational Psychology 2 0 0 2
11 SMCA-102 Statistical Methods with Data Visualization 1 0 2 2
Credits in 
Semester-I
16 0 16 24

===== PAGE 162 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
162
Semester – II
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 SMCA-101 Elementary Mathematics 2 0 0 2
2 BICM-101 Fundamentals of Plant Biochemistry and 
Biotechnology
2 0 2 3
3 AGRO-102 Introduction to Forestry 1 0 2 2
4 AGRO-103 Introductory Agro-meteorology & Climate change 1 0 2 2
5 LPFM-101 Livestock, Poultry and Fisheries management - I 2 0 0 2
6 FDSN-101 Principles of Food Science and Nutrition 2 0 0 2
7 GPBR-111 Fundamentals of Genetics 2 0 2 3
8 ENTO-131 Fundamentals of Entomology 2 0 2 3
9 AEXT-192 Life Skills and Personality Development 1 0 2 2
10 AENG-151 Soil and Water Conservation Engineering 1 0 2 2
11 COCA-100 NSS / NCC / Physical Education & Yoga Practices (non-
gradial)  
0 0 4 2
Credits in 
Semester-II
16 0 18 25
Semester – III
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 SMCA-201 Statistical Methods 1 0 2 2
2 AGRO-201 Crop Production Technology – I (Kharif  Crops) 2 0 2 3
3 AGRO-203 Irrigation Water Management 1 0 2 2
4 GPBR-211 Fundamentals of Plant Breeding 2 0 2 3
5 ENTO-231 Fundamentals of Entomology II (Insect Ecology and 
Concepts of IPM)
1 0 2 2
0 0 0 0
6 AECO-241 Farm Management, Production & Resource 
Economics
2 0 2 3
7 AENG-251 Farm  Power and Machinery 1 0 2 2
8 HORT-281 Production Technology for Vegetables and Spices 1 0 2 2
9 HORT-282 Production Technology for Fruit and Plantation Crops 1 0 2 2
10 AEXT-291 Fundamentals of Agricultural Extension Education 2 0 2 3
11 MULTI-2R1 Undergraduate Research in Agriculture   0 0 2 1
Credits in 
Semester-III
14 0 22 25
Semester – IV
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 LPFM-201 Livestock, Poultry and Fisheries Management - II 1 0 2 2
2 AGRO-202 Crop Production Technology - II (Rabi Crops) 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 163 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
163
3 GPBR-212 Principles of Seed Technology 2 0 2 3
4 SSAC-221 Manures, Fertilizers and Soil Fertility Management 2 0 2 3
5 AECO-242 Agricultural Finance and Cooperation 1 0 2 2
6 AENG-252 Protected Cultivation and Secondary Agriculture 1 0 2 2
7 PATH-271 Principles of Plant Pathology 2 0 0 2
8 HORT-283 Production Technology of Ornamental Crops 
Medicinal, Aromatic Plants  and Landscaping
1 0 2 2
9 SMCA-202    Problem Solving Using Python Programming 1 0 2 2
Elective Course
10 ELEC-200 Weed Management 2 0 2 3
ELEC-230 Bio-pesticides and Bio-fertilizers 2 0 2 3
Credits in 
Semester-IV
15 0 18 24
Semester – V
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 AGRO-301 Rainfed Agriculture & Watershed Management 1 0 2 2
2 AGRO-302 Practical Crop Production–I (Kharif Crops) 0 0 4 2
3 GPBR-311 Crop Improvement-I (Kharif Crops) 1 0 2 2
4 SSAC-321 Management of Problem Soils and irrigation water 1 0 2 2
5 ENTO-331 Pests of Crops and Stored Grains and their 
Management
2 0 2 3
6 AECO-341 Agricultural Marketing, Trade & Prices 2 0 2 3
7 AENG-351 Renewable Energy and Green Technology 1 0 2 2
8 PATH-372 Diseases of Horticultural Crops and their 
Management
1 0 2 2
9 PATH-373 Principles of Integrated Plant Disease Management 1 0 2 2
10 AEXT-391 Entrepreneurship Development and Business 
Communication
1 0 2 2
Elective Course
11 ELEC-340 Agribusiness management (SABM/Agril. Economics) 2 0 2 3
ELEC-380 Protected Cultivation / Hi-tech Horticulture   2 0 2 3
ELEC-391 Lunching Startups 2 0 2 3
Credits in 
Semester-V
13 0 24 25
Semester – VI
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
1 EVST-301 Environmental Studies & Disaster Management 2 0 2 3
2 SMCA-301 Agri informatics 1 0 2 2
3 AGRO-303 Geoinformatics and Nano-technology for Precision 
Farming
1 0 2 2

===== PAGE 164 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
164
4 AGRO-304 Practical crop production – II (Rabi crops) 0 0 4 2
5 AGRO-305 Farming systems & organic farming for sustainable 
agriculture
2 0 2 3
6 GPBR-312 Crop Improvement-II (Rabi crops) 1 0 2 2
7 GPBR-313 Intellectual Property Rights (N) 1 0 0 1
8 ENTO-332 Management of beneficial insects 1 0 2 2
9 PATH-371 Diseases of Field Crops and their Management 2 0 2 3
10 HORT-381 Post-harvest Management and Value Addition of 
Fruits and Vegetables
1 0 2 2
Elective courses 
11 ELEC-350 Food safety & Standards (Microbiology and Quality 
Control Lab)
2 0 2 3
ELEC-360 Applied Crop Physiology 2 0 2 3
ELEC-390 Agricultural Journalism (Agril. Extension) 2 0 2 3
Credits in 
Semester-VI
14 0 22 25
Semester – VII
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
Rural Agricultural Work Experience (RAWE) and Agro-Industrial Attachment (AIA) 
1 RAWE & AIA Crop Production 0 0 10 5
Crop Protection 0 0 8 4
Rural Economics 0 0 6 3
Extension Programme 0 0 8 4
Research Station / KVK / DAATT Centre activities and 
attachment to Agro based industries 
0 0 8 4
Credits in 
Semester-VII
0 0 40 20
Semester – VIII
S.No. Code Title L T P Cr
 1 ELP Experiential Learning Programme (ELP)
(Modules for Skill Development and 
Entrepreneurship) 
0 0 40 20
Credits in 
Semester-VIII
0 0 40 20
Total credits from semester I to VIII 88 0 200 188

===== PAGE 165 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
165
International Engineering Program
B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering 
I Year I Semester
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P C
1 23EN200HSI01 English – I 2 - - 2
2 23BM300HSI01 Finance for Engineers 3 - - 3
3 23MA310BSI01 Mathematics – I 3 1 - 4
4 23PH310BSI01 Engineering Physics – I 3 1 - 4
5 23CH310BSI01 Engineering Chemistry 3 1 - 4
6 23PH001BSI02 Engineering Physics Lab - - 2 1
7 23CH001BSI02 Engineering Chemistry Lab - - 2 1
8 23EN001HSI02 English Language Communication Skills 
Lab - - 2 1
9 23CS001ESI01 Introduction to Programming Lab - - 2 1
Total 21
I Year II Semester
S. No. Course  Code Course Hours/Week
L T P C
1 23EN300HSI03 English – II 3 - - 3
2 23MA310BSI02 Mathematics – II 3 1 - 4
3 23PH310BSI03 Engineering Physics – II 3 1 - 4
4 OE Open Elective – I 3 - - 3
5 23CS300ESI02 Problem Solving with Programming 3 - - 3
6 23PH001BSI04 Engineering Physics - II Lab - - 2 1
7 23CS001ESI03 Problem Solving with Programming Lab - - 2 1
Total 19
II Year I Semester
S.No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1 23CS310CSI01 Discrete Mathematical Structures – I 3 1 - 4
2 23CS310ESI04 Microprocessors and Microcontrollers 3 1 - 4
3 23CS300ESI05 Smart System Design 3 - - 3
4 23CS310ESI06 Data Structures 3 1 - 4
5 23CS310ESI07 Digital Logic Design 3 1 - 4

===== PAGE 166 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
166
6 23CS001ESI08 Microprocessors and Microcontrollers Lab - - 2 1
7 23CS001ESI09 Data Structures Lab - - 2 1
Total 21
II Year II Semester
S. No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1 23MA310BSI03 Mathematics – III 3 1 - 4
2 23CS310CSI02 Computer Organization and Architecture 3 1 - 4
3 23CS310CSI03 Object Oriented Programming Concepts 3 1 - 4
4 23CS300CSI04 Operating Systems 3 - - 3
5 23CS310CSI05 Theory of Computation 3 1 - 4
6 OE Open  Elective – II 3 - - 3
7 23CS001CSI06 Object Oriented Programming Concepts 
Lab - - 2 1
8 23CS001CSI07 Operating Systems Lab - - 2 1
 24
III Year I Semester
S. No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1 23MA310BSI04 Probability and Statistics 3 1 - 4
2 23CS300CSI08 Computer Networks 3 - - 3
3 23CS310CSI09 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 1 - 4
4
 Professional Elective – I
3 - - 3
23CS300PEI01 Artificial Intelligence 
23CS300PEI02 Distributed Systems
23CS300PEI03 Foundations of IoT
23CS300PEI04 Principles of Programming Languages
5 23CS300CSI10 Database Management Systems 3 - - 3
6 23CS310CSI11 Discrete Mathematical Structures – II 3 1 - 4
7 23CS001CSI12 Computer Networks Lab - - 2 1
8 23CS001CSI13 Design and Analysis of Algorithms Lab - - 2 1
9 23CS001CSI14 Database Management Systems Lab - - 2 1
Total 24
III Year II Semester

===== PAGE 167 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
167
S. No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1 OE Open Elective – III 3 - - 3
2
 Professional Elective – II
3 - - 3
23CS300PEI05 Network Programming
23CS300PEI06 Java Programming
23CS300PEI07 R Programming
23CS300PEI08 Security in IoT 
23CS300PEI09 Ethical Hacking
3 23CS300CSI15 Cryptography and Network Security 3 - - 3
4 23CS310CSI16 Software Engineering 3 1 - 4
5 23CS300CSI17 Web Technologies 3 - - 3
6 23CS300CSI18 Compiler Design 3 - - 3
7
 Professional Elective - II Lab
- - 2 1
23CS001PEI10 Network Programming
23CS001PEI11 Java Programming
23CS001PEI12 R Programming
23CS001PEI13 Security in IoT 
23CS001PEI14 Ethical Hacking
8 23CS001CSI19 Web Technologies Lab - - 2 1
9 23CS001CSI20 Compiler Design Lab - - 2 1
Total 22
IV Year I Semester
S. No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1 23CS300CSI21 Machine Learning 3 - - 3
2 OE Open Elective – IV 3 - - 3
3
 Professional Elective – III
3 - - 3
23CS300PEI15 Neural Networks and Deep Learning
23CS300PEI16 Data Mining 
23CS300PEI17 Scripting Languages
23CS300PEI18 Distributed IoT Systems
4
PE Professional  Elective – IV
3 - - 3
23CS300PEI19 Advanced Algorithms
23CS300PEI20 Big Data Analytics
23CS300PEI21 Cloud Computing
23CS300PEI22 Software Testing Methodologies

===== PAGE 168 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
168
5 23CS001CSI22 Machine Learning through Python Lab - - 2 1
6 23CS004PRI01 Capstone Phase – I - - 8 4
Total 17
IV Year II Semester
S. No. Course Code Course Hours /Week
L T P C
1
PE Professional  Elective – V
3 - - 3
23CS300PEI23 Ad hoc & Sensor Networks 
23CS300PEI24 Natural Language Processing
23CS300PEI25 Software Project Management
23CS300PEI26 Image Processing
2 23CS009PRI02 Capstone Phase - II / Practice School - - 18 9
Total 12
Open Electives
Open Elective - I Hours /Week
S.No Course Code Name of the Course L T P C
1 23HS300OEI01 Philosophy 3 0 0 3
2 23EC300OEI02 Design for Social Impact I 3 0 0 3
3 23SB300OEI03 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3 0 0 3
4 23CC300OEI04 Foundations to Cognitive Science 3 0 0 3
5 23CS300OEI05 Visual Communication and Computer Art 3 0 0 3
6 23CH300OEI06 Environmental Studies 3 0 0 3
7 23SB300OEI07 Marketing for Engineers 3 0 0 3
8 23SB300OEI08 Project Management 3 0 0 3
9 23EC300OEI09
Principles of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 0 0 3
       
       
Open Elective - II Hours /Week
S.No Course Code Name of the Course L T P C
1 23HS300OEI10 Sociology 3 0 0 3
2 23EC300OEI11 Design for Social Impact II 3 0 0 3
3 23SB300OEI12 Business Modelling and Validation 3 0 0 3
4 23CC300OEI13 Design Cognition 3 0 0 3
5 23CS300OEI14 Image Manipulation in Adobe Photoshop 3 0 0 3
6 23EC300OEI15 Engineering Ethics 3 0 0 3
7 23SB300OEI16 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 169 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
169
8 23ME300OEI17 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
9 23SB300OEI18 Intellectual Property Rights 3 0 0 3
       
       
Open Elective - III Hours /Week
S.No Course Codes Name of the Course L T P C
1 23HS300OEI19 Psychology 3 0 0 3
2 23EC300OEI20 Design for Social Impact III 3 0 0 3
3 23SB300OEI21 Startup Launch 3 0 0 3
4 23CC300OEI22 Cognitive Management 3 0 0 3
5 23CS300OEI23
Advanced Visual Organization and After 
Effects 3 0 0 3
6 23EC300OEI24 MORSE 3 0 0 3
7 23CS300OEI25 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
8 23CE300OEI26 Smart Cities 3 0 0 3
9 23CS300OEI27 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 170 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
170
Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) 
AY 2023-2024
SEMESTER-I
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EN400AE101 English – I 4 0 0 4
2 23CM400MC102 BusinessOrganizationand Account-
ing 4 0 0 4
3 23MA400HS103 Mathematics 4 0 0 4
4 23CS301PC104 Cprogramming 3 0 1 4
5 23CS301PC105 Fundamentalsof InformationTech-
nology 3 0 1 4
  Total    20
SEMESTER-II
S.No. Course Code Course
Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23EN400AE106 AdvancedCommunication Skills 4 0 0 4
2 23MA400HS107 Probability&Statistics 4 0 0 4
3 23CS400PM108 Software Engineering 4 0 0 4
4 23CS301PC109 ObjectOriented Programming 3 0 1 4
5 23CS301PC110 DatabaseManagement System + 3 0 1 4
  Total    20
SEMESTER-III
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23HS400VA201 IndianHeritage&Culture/ Environ-
mental Studies
4 0 0 4
2 23CS400PM202 OperatingSystems 4 0 0 4
3 23CS400PM203 E Commerce 4 0 0 4
4 23CS301PC204 JavaProgramming 3 0 1 4
5 23CS301PC205 WebProgramming 3 0 1 4
  Total    20

===== PAGE 171 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
171
SEMESTER-IV
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23MA400AE206 Verbal&QuantitativeAbility 4 0 0 4
2 23CS400PM207 DistributedComputing 4 0 0 4
3 23CS400PM208 ArtificialIntelligence 4 0 0 4
4 23CS301PC209 UnifiedModelingLanguage (UML) 3 0 1 4
5 23CS301PC210 DataScienceUsing Python 3 0 1 4
6  MiniProject/CaseStudy     
  Total    20
SEMESTER-V
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CS400PM301 Data Mining 4 0 0 4
2 23CS400PM302 Cloud Computing 4 0 0 4
3 23CS400PM303 SoftwareQualityTesting 4 0 0 4
4 23CS301PC304 MultimediaSystems& Applications 3 0 1 4
5 23CS301PC305 CyberSecurity 3 0 1 4
  Total    20
SEMESTER-VI
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CS400PM306 Machine Learning 4 0 0 4
2 23CS400PM307 Mobile Computing 4 0 0 4
3 23CS012PR308 ProjectWork 0 1 2 12
  Total    20

===== PAGE 172 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
172
SR UNIVERSITY
Department of  Computer Science & Artificial Intelligence
R23 Proposed Course Structure-M.Tech Computer Science & Engineering
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS401PC501 Advanced Data Structures 4 - 2 5
2 23CS500PC502 Computability, Complexity and Algorithms 5 - - 5
3 Specialization Core - 1 4 - 2 5
4  Program Elective - I 2 - 2 3
6 23CS300HS501 Soft Skills for Professionals 3 - 0 3
7 23CS003PR501 Mini Project with Seminar - - 6 3
8 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
(LHS) Electives 1 - - 1
Total 17 0 12 25
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS301PC503 Advanced Operating System 3 - 2 4
2  Problem Solving Using Programing Electives 2 - 6 5
3 Specialization Core - II 3 - 2 4
4  Specialization Elective I 2 - 2 3
5 Program Elective- II 2 - 2 3
6 23BM101RM501 Research Methodology & IPR 1 - 2 2
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
(LHS)
 Electives I
1 - - 1
8 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 15 0 20 25
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS006PR601 Capstone Project - - 12 6
2  Program Elective- III 2 - 2 3
3 Specialization Elective II 2 - 2 3
Open Elective(OE) 3 - - 3

===== PAGE 173 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
173
Or
1 23CS015PR601 Industry Internship/R&D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 30 15
Total 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS015PR602 Major Project/Industry Internship/R&D Project/
Startup/Externship - - 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Total Credits 82
 Program Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE501 Image and Video Processing 2 0 2 3
2 23CS201PE502 User Centered Design 2 0 2 3
3 23CS201PE503 Software Project Management 2 0 2 3
4 23CS201PE504 Soft Computing 2 0 2 3
5 23CS201PE505 Distributed Computing 2 0 2 3
6 23CS201PE506 Reinforcement Learning 2 0 2 3
S.No. Course Code Specialization Core – I Hours / Week
L T P C
1 23CS401SC503 High Performance Computing Principles and 
Practices (CSE-1) 4 - 2 5
2 23CS401SC504 Machine Learning  (AIML – 1) 4 - 2 5
S.No. Course Code Specialization Core – II Hours / Week
L T P C
3 23CS301SC505 Advanced Cloud Computing (CSE-2) 3 - 2 4
4 23CS301SC506 Intelligent Model Design( AIML – 2) 3 2 4
Specialization Elective  List - Computer Science [CS]
 S.No Course Code Title Hours/Week
L T P C
1 23CS201SE501 Natural Language Processing 2 - 2 3
2 23CS201SE502 Social Network Analysis 2 - 2 3
3 23CS201SE503 Agile Software Development 2 - 2 3
4 23CS201SE504 Cloud Infrastructure and Services 3 - 2 3

===== PAGE 174 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
174
Specialization Elective  List - Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning [AIML]
 S.No Course Code Title Hours/Week
L T P C
1 23AI201SE501 Advanced Computer Vision and Video Analytics 2 - 2 3
2 23AI201SE502 Cognitive Modeling 2 - 2 3
3 23AI201SE503 AI in Healthcare 2 - 2 3
 Open Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 0 0 3
2 23ME300OE502 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
3 23BM300OE503 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
4 23BM300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23ME300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
6 23BM300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3
7 23CE300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23ME300OE508 Robotics 3 0 0 3
9 23CS300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23EE300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 
Credit
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
  Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5

===== PAGE 175 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
175
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 - 6 5
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
R23 Course Structure-M.Tech ECE
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 Program Core 3 - 2 4
2 Program Core 3 - 2 4
3 Program Elective- I 3 - 2 4
4 Program Elective- II 3 - 2 4
6 Program Elective- III 3 - 2 4
7 23BM300RM501 Research Methodology and IPR 3 - - 3
8 23EC002PR502 Mini Project with Seminar 0 - 4 2
Total 18 0 14 25
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 Program Core 3 - 2 4
2 Problem Solving Using Programming Electives 2 - 6 5

===== PAGE 176 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
176
3 Specialization Core 4 - 2 5
4 Specialization Elective-I 2 - 2 3
5 Program Elective- IV 2 - 2 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -I 1 - - 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -II 1 - - 1
8 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 16 0 18 25
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EC006PR601 Capstone Project - - 12 6
Program Elective- V 2 - 2 3
Specialization Elective-II 2 - 2 3
Open Elective 3 - - 3
                                   OR
23EC015PR601  Industry Internship/R and D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 7 0 16 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EC015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R and D 
Project/Startup/Externship - - - 15
Total 0 0 0 15
Total Credits 80
Program Core List - EDT[Electronic Design Technology]
1 23EC301PC501 Embedded Systems Design 3 - 2 4
2 23EC301PC502 Digital System Design 3 - 2 4
3 23EC301PC503 Advanced Microcomputer Systems and 
Interfacing 3 - 2 4
Program Core List - ES [ Embedded System]
1 23EC301PC501 Embedded Systems Design 3 - 2 4
2 23EC301PC502 Digital System Design 3 - 2 4
3 23EC301PC503 Advanced Microcomputer Systems and 
Interfacing 3 - 2 4
Program Core List - IoT [ Internet of Things]
1 23IT301PC501 Wireless Sensor Protocols and Programming 3 - 2 4
2 23IT301PC502 Computer Networks and Management 3 - 2 4

===== PAGE 177 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
177
3 23EC301PC503 Advanced Microcomputer Systems and 
Interfacing 3 - 2 4
Program Core List - VLSI [ Very Large Scale Intehration]
1 23VL301PC501 Analog IC Design 3 - 2 4
2 23VL301PC502 CMOS VLSI Design 3 - 2 4
3 23EC301PC503 Advanced Microcomputer Systems and 
Interfacing 3 - 2 4
Specialization Core List - EDT[Electronic Design Technology]
2 23ED401SC501 Electronics Product Design 4 - 2 5
Specialization Core List  - ES [ Embedded System]
2 23ES401SC501 System Level Design and Modeling 4 - 2 5
Specialization Core List - IoT [ Internet of Things]
1 23IT401SC501 IoT Architecture and Protocols 4 - 2 5
Specialization Core List - VLSI [ Very Large Scale Integration]
2 23VL401SC501 CAD for VLSI Design 4 - 2 5
Specialization Elective List -  EDT[Electronic Design Technology]
1 23ED201SE501 MOS Device Modeling 2 - 2 3
2 23ED201SE502 Nanotechnology and Emerging Applications 2 - 2 3
3 23ED201SE503 Design for Manufacturability 2 - 2 3
Specialization Elective List -ES [ Embedded System]
1 23ES201SE501 Advanced Processor Architecture 2 - 2 3
2 23ES201SE502 Embedded SoC and Cyber Physical Systems 2 - 2 3
3 23ES201SE503 Advanced Embedded Computing 2 - 2 3
Specialization Elective List -IoT[ Internet of Things]
1 23IT201SE501 Networking and IoT 2 - 2 3
2 23IT201SE502 Cloud Architecture and Computing 2 - 2 3
3 23IT201SE503 Wearable Computing, Mixed Reality and 
Internet of Everything 2 - 2 3
Specialization Elective List -VLSI[Very Large Scale Integration]
1 23VL201SE501 Mixed Signal IC Design 2 - 2 3
2 23VL201SE502 Memory Design and Testing 2 - 2 3
3 23VL201SE503 Digital VLSI Testing 2 - 2 3
Program Electives I to V
S.No. Course Code Program Electives I to V Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EC301PE501 Wireless Sensor Networks 3 - 2 4
2 23EC201PE502 Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems 2 - 2 3
3 23EC201PE503 Advanced Digital Signal and Image Processing 2 - 2 3
4 23EC201PE504 Adaptive Signal Processing 2 - 2 3

===== PAGE 178 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
178
5 23EC201PE505 Real Time Operating System 2 - 2 3
6 23EC201PE506 DSP System Design 2 - 2 3
7 23EC201PE507 Control System Design 2 - 2 3
8 23EC201PE508 Principles of Sensor and Signal Conditioning 2 - 2 3
9 23EC201PE509 RFID And Microcontrollers 2 - 2 3
10 23EC201PE510 Electromagnetic Compatibility 2 - 2 3
11 23EC201PE511 Parallel and Distributed Systems 2 - 2 3
12 23EC201PE512 Biomedical Instrumentation 2 - 2 3
13 23EC201PE513 Electronic Packaging 2 - 2 3
14 23EC201PE514 MEMS Structures and Applications 2 - 2 3
15 23EC201PE515 Electronic manufacturing Technology 2 - 2 3
16 23EC201PE516 Advanced Distributed System 2 - 2 3
17 23EC201PE517 Smart Convergent Technologies 2 - 2 3
18 23EC201PE518 VLSI Technology 2 - 2 3
19 23EC201PE519 Advanced Computer Architecture 2 - 2 3
20 23EC201PE520 VLSI Signal Processing Architectures 2 - 2 3
21 23EC201PE521 Computer vision 2 - 2 3
22 23EC201PE522 Pattern Analysis and Machine intelligence 2 - 2 3
23 23EC201PE523 Probabilistic Machine Learning and AI 2 - 2 3
23 23EC301PE523 High Speed Digital Design 3 - 2 4
25 23EC201PE525 Artificial Intelligence 2 - 2 3
26 23EC201PE526 Verification of VLSI Systems 2 - 2 3
27 23EC201PE527 Internet of Things and IIoT 2 - 2 3
28 23EC201PE528 Deep Learning 2 - 2 3
29 23EC201PE529 RF and Microwave Sensors 2 - 2 3
30 23EC201PE530 Machine Learning 2 - 2 3
31 23EC201PE531 Privacy and Security in IoT 2 - 2 3
32 23EC301PE532 System on Chip Architecture 3 - 2 4
33 23EC301PE533 FPGA’s Physical Design 3 - 2 4
34 23EC301PE534 VLSI Testing and Testability 3 - 2 4
35 23EC301PE535 Low Power VLSI 3 - 2 4
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 0 0 3
2 23ME300OE502 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
3 23ME300OE503 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
4 23ME300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23ME300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 179 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
179
6 23ME300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3
7 23ME300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23ME300OE508 Robotics 3 0 0 3
9 23ME300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23ME300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 
Credit
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 - 6 5

===== PAGE 180 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
180
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Proposed R23 Course Structure - M.Tech. Programme in Power Electronics
COURSE STRUCTURE
S.No. PROGRAM CATEGORY TOTAL CREDITS
1 Program Core (PC) 20
2 Program Electives (PE) 21
3 Open Electives (OE) 3
6 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective (PSPE) 5
7 Research Methods (RM) 3
8 Hobbies, Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular Elective (LHS) 4
9 Capstone Project (PR) 6
10 Major Project / Industry Internship/R&D Project/Startup/Externship (PR) 15
Career Readiness Elective 3
Total 80
L: Theory    T: Tutorial     P: Practical    D: Design       C: Credits
M.Tech. I SEMESTER
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23PE301PC501 Analysis of Power Electronic Converters 3 - 2 4
2 23PE301PC502 Power Electronic Control of DC Drives 3 - 2 4
3 Program Elective-I 4 - 0 4
4 Program Elective-II 4 - - 4
5 Program Elective-III 4 - - 4
6 23BM300RM501 Research Methodology and IPR 3 - - 3
7 23PE002PR501 Mini Project with Seminar - - 4 2
Total 21 - 8 25
M.Tech. II SEMESTER
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C

===== PAGE 181 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
181
1 23PE301PC503 Advanced Power Electronic Converters 3 - 2 4
2 23PE301PC504 Power Electronic Control of AC Drives 3 - 2 4
3 23PE301PC505 Machine Modelling analysis 4 - - 4
4 Problem Solving Using Programming Elective 2 - 6 5
Program Elective-IV 2 - 2 3
5 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I 1 - - 1
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II 1 - - 1
7 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 17 - 16 25
M.Tech. III SEMESTER
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23PE006PR601 Capstone Project - - 12 6
2 Program Elective- V 2 - 2 3
3 Program Elective- VI 2 - 2 3
Open Elective 3 - - 3
or
1 23PE015PR601 Industrial Project/R&D Project/Industry 
Internship/Start-up/Externship - - 30 15
Total 4 - 22 15
M.Tech. IV SEMESTER
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23PE015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R&D 
Project/Startup/Externship - - 30 15
Total - - 30 15
Program Electives I to VI
S.No. Course Code Course Hours per Week
L T P/D C
1 23PE400PE501 Dynamics of Electrical Machines 4 - - 4
2 23PE201PE502 Automation 2 - 2 3
3 23PE201PE503 Modern Power Electronics 2 - 2 3
4 23PE300PE504 Power Quality 3 - - 3
5 23PE201PE505 Modern Control Theory 2 - 2 3

===== PAGE 182 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
182
6 23PE300PE506 Special Machines 3 - - 3
7 23PE400PE507 HVDC Transmission 4 - - 4
8 23PE400PE508 Distributed Generation & Micro Grid 4 - - 4
9 23PE201PE509 FACTS Devices 2 - 2 3
10 23PE201PE510 Smart Grid Technologies 2 - 2 3
11 23PE201PE511 Data Science Applications in Electrical 
Engineering 2 - 2 3
12 23PE201PE512 Advanced Microcontroller Based Systems 2 - 2 3
13 23PE201PE513 Power Electronic Applications to Renewable 
Energy 2 - 2 3
14 23PE201PE514 Hybrid Electric Vehicles 2 - 2 3
15 23PE201PE515 Integration of Energy Sources 2 - 2 3
16 23PE300PE516 SCADA Systems and Applications 3 - - 3
17 23PE400PE517 Compensation Technique and Management 4 - - 4
18 23PE400PE518 High Frequency Magnetic Components 4 - - 4
19 23PE400PE519 Advanced Digital Signal Proceesing 4 - - 4
20 23PE400PE520 Industrial Load Modelling and Control 4 - - 4
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours per Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 - - 3
2 23ME300OE502 Operations Research 3 - - 3
3 23ME300OE503 Business Analytics 3 - - 3
4 23ME300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 - - 3
5 23ME300OE505 3D Printing 3 - - 3
6 23ME300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 - - 3
7 23ME300OE507 Disaster Management 3 - - 3
8 23ME300OE508 Robotics 3 - - 3
9 23ME300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 - - 3
10 23ME300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 - - 3
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5

===== PAGE 183 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
183
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 - 6 5
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 
Credit
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
Department of Mechanical Engineering
R23 Course Structure-M.Tech Advanced Manufacturing Systems
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23AM401PC501 Additive Manufacturing Processes 4 0 2 5
2 23AM301PC502 Computer Aided Design Modeling 3 0 2 4

===== PAGE 184 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
184
3 Program Elective- I 2 0 2 3
4 Program Elective- II 2 0 2 3
5 Program Elective- III 2 0 2 3
6 23BM300RM501 Research Methodology & IPR 3 0 0 3
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -I 1 0 0 1
8 23AM002PR501 Mini Project with Seminar 0 0 4 2
Total 17 0 14 24
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23AM401PC503 Design for Additive Manufacturing 4 0 2 5
2 23AM401PC504 Material Characterization 4 0 2 5
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Electives 2 0 6 5
4 Specialization Elective I 2 0 2 3
5 Program Elective IV 2 0 2 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -II 1 0 0 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -III 1 0 0 1
8 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 17 0 18 26
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23AM006PR601 Capstone Project 0 0 12 6
2 Program Elective V 2 0 2 3
3 Specialization Elective II 2 0 2 3
Open Elective 3 0 0 3
OR
23AM015PR601 Industry Internship/R&D Project/Start-up/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 7 0 16 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23AM015PR602 Major Project/Industry Internship/R&D Project/
Startup/Externship 0 0 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Total Credits 80

===== PAGE 185 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
185
Specialization Elective List 
1 23AM201SE501 Automation & Robotics 2 0 2 3
2 23AM201SE502 Big Data Analytics for Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
3 23AM201SE503 Flexible Manufacturing Systems 2 0 2 3
Program Electives I to V
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23AM201PE501 Computer Integrated Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
2 23AM201PE502  Project Management 2 0 2 3
3 23AM201PE503 Sustainable Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
4 23AM201PE504 Materials and Energy Sources for Additive 
Manufacturing 2 0 2 3
5 23AM201PE505 Advanced Material Technology 2 0 2 3
6 23AM201PE506 Engineering Smart Materials 2 0 2 3
7 23AM201PE507 Mechanics of Composite Materials 2 0 2 3
8 23AM201PE508  Supply Chain Management 2 0 2 3
9 23AM201PE509 Quality and Reliability Engineering 2 0 2 3
10 23AM201PE510 NDE/NDT 2 0 2 3
11 23AM201PE511 Finite Element Analysis 2 0 2 3
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 0 0 3
2 23ME300OE502 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
3 23BM300OE503 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
4 23BM300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23ME300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
6 23BM300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3
7 23CE300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23BM300OE508 Robotics 3 0 0 3
9 23CE300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23EE300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 
Credit
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1

===== PAGE 186 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
186
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
5 23EN100LS505 English for Research Paper Writing 1 0 0 1
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 - 6 5
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
Department of Civil Engineering
R23 Course Structure-M.Tech (Construction Technology and Management)
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE410PC501 Quantitative Techniques in Project Management 4 1 0 5

===== PAGE 187 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
187
2 23CE401PC502 Advanced Construction Materials and Testing 4 0 2 5
3 Program Elective- I 2 1 0 3
4 Program Elective- II 2 1 0 3
6 Program Elective- III 2 1 0 3
7 23BM300RM501 Research Methodology and IPR 3 - - 3
8 23CE003PR502 Mini Project with Seminar 0 - 6 3
Total 17 4 8 25
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE410PC503 Construction Planning, Scheduling and Control 4 1 0 5
2 Problem Solving Using Programming Electives 2 0 6 5
3 Specialization Core 3 0 2 4
4 Specialization Elective-I 2 0 2 3
5 Program Elective- IV 2 0 2 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective - I 1 0 0 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective - II 1 0 0 1
7 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 16 1 16 25
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE006PR601 Capstone Project - - 12 6
Program Elective- V 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective -II 2 0 2 3
Open Elective 3 - - 3
                                   OR
23CE015PR601 Industry Internship/R and D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 7 0 16 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R and D 
Project/Startup/Externship - - - 15
Total 0 0 0 15
Total Credits 80

===== PAGE 188 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
188
Specialization Core List 
1 23CE301SC501 Advanced Construction Techniques 3 0 2 4
Specialization Elective List 
1 23CE201SE501 Computer Applications in Construction Planning 
and Management 2 0 2 3
Program Electives I to V
S.No. Course Code Program Electives I to V Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CE210PE501 Construction Tools and Equipments 2 1 0 3
2 23CE201PE502 Contract and Administration Planning 2 0 2 3
3 23CE201PE503 Formwork and Scaffolding for Structures 2 0 2 3
4 23CE201PE504 Statistical Methods for Construction Engineers 2 0 2 3
5 23CE210PE505 Building Planning and Bye-laws 2 1 0 3
6 23CE201PE506 Energy Efficient Building 2 0 2 3
7 23CE210PE507 Resource Management and Control in 
Construction 2 1 0 3
8 23CE201PE508 Building Pathology 2 0 2 3
9 23CE201PE509 Building Services 2 0 2 3
10 23CE201PE510 Project Formulation and Appraisal 2 0 2 3
11 23CE201PE511 Construction Personnel Management 2 0 2 3
12 23CE201PE512 Occupational Hazards, Health and Safety 
Management 2 0 2 3
13 23CE201PE513 Concrete Mechanics 2 0 2 3
14 23CE201PE514 Economics and Finance Management in 
Construction 2 0 2 3
15 23CE201PE515 Building Information Modeling 2 0 2 3
16 23CE201PE516 Pre-cast and Prefabricated structures 2 0 2 3
17 23CE201PE517 Construction Project Management 2 0 2 3
18 23CE201PE518 Quality Control and Assurance in Construction 2 0 2 3
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23ME300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 0 0 3
2 23ME300OE502 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
3 23ME300OE503 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
4 23ME300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23ME300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
6 23ME300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3
7 23ME300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23ME300OE508 Robotics 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 189 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
189
9 23ME300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23ME300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 - 6 5
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3

===== PAGE 190 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
190
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
R23 Course Structure-M.B.A
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23SB201PC501 Program Core 2 0 2 3
2 23SB301PC502 Program Core 3 0 2 4
3 23SB300PC503 Program Core 3 0 0 3
4 23SB103PC504 Program Core 1 0 6 4
5 23SB301PC505 Program Core 3 0 2 4
6 23SB301PC506 Program Core 3 0 2 4
7 23SB101PC507 Program Core 1 0 2 2
8 23CS001IT501 Introduction ot IT LAB COURSE 0 0 2 1
9 23SB001AC501 LIFE SKILLS SKILL DEVELOPMENT COURSE 0 0 2 1
Total 16 0 20 26
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23SB200PC508 Program Core 2 0 0 2
2 23SB101PC509 Program Core 1 0 2 2
3 23SB201PC510 Program Core 3 0 2 4
4 Specialization Core-I 2 0 2 3
5 specialization Elective-1 2 0 2 3
6 Problem Solving Using Programming Electives 2 0 6 5
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -I 0 0 2 1
8 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -II 0 0 2 1
9 Career Readiness Elective 1 0 4 3
Total 13 0 22 24
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23SB006PR601 Capstone Project 0 0 12 6
Specialization Elective- 2 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective- 3 2 0 2 3
Open Elective 2 0 2 3
                                   OR

===== PAGE 191 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
191
23SB015PR601  Industry Internship/R and D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 6 0 18 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23SB015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R and D 
Project/Startup/Externship - - 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Total Credits 80
Program Core List 
1 23SB202PC501 management and organisation behaviour 2 0 2 3
2 23SB301PC502 Managerial economics 3 0 2 4
3 23SB300PC503 financial accounting 3 0 0 3
4 23SB300PC504 business environment 3 0 0 3
5 23SB201PC505 business communication 2 0 2 3
6 23SB301PC506 business statistics 3 - 2 4
7 23SB101PC507 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 2 2
8 23SB300PC508 production and operations management 3 0 0 3
9 23SB201PC509 Strategic Management 2 0 2 3
10 23SB301PC510 Business Research Methods 3 0 2 4
Specialization Core List 
23SB201SC501 marketing  Management 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC502 human resource management 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC503 financial management 2 0 2 3
23SB201SC504 introduction to business analytics 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective List- Marketing 
1 23SB201SE611 Consumer Psychology and neuroscience 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE612 Principles of Retailing 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE613 sales and distribution management 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE614 product and brand managment 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201SE615 Marketing strategy for technology platform 2 0 2 3
6 23SB201SE616 digital & social media marketing 2 0 2 3
7 23SB201SE617 sales promotion strategies 2 0 2 3
8 23SB201SE618 marketing analytics 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective List- Human Resource Management 
1 23SB201SE621 Managing organisational change 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE622 leading diversity in organisations 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE623 personal staffing and evaluation 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 192 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
192
4 23SB201SE624 talent aquisition and retention 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201SE625 neogitation skills for managers 2 0 2 3
6 23SB201SE626 understanding career 2 0 2 3
7 23SB201SE627 people analytics 2 0 2 3
8 23SB201SE628 performance management 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective List -  Finance 
1 23SB201SE631 Security analysis and portfolio managment 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE632 financial engineering 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE633 Financial derivatives 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE634 advance corporate finance 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201SE635 financial institutions and markets 2 0 2 3
6 23SB201SE636 venture capital and financial innovations 2 0 2 3
7 23SB201SE637 international financial marketis 2 0 2 3
8 23SB201SE638 2 0 2 3
Specialization Elective List -Business analytics 
1 23SB201SE641 descriptive analytics 2 0 2 3
2 23SB201SE642 introduction to data science 2 0 2 3
3 23SB201SE643 predictive analytics 2 0 2 3
4 23SB201SE644 data visualisation using power BI 2 0 2 3
5 23SB201SE645 machine learning 2 0 2 3
6 23SB201SE646 business intelligence 2 0 2 3
7 23SB201SE647 big data analytics 2 0 2 3
8 23SB201SE648 2 0 2 3
S.No. Course Code Program Electives I to VI Hours / Week
L T P/D C
23SB201PE601 Logistics and supply chain management 2 0 2 3
23SB201PE601 Enterprenuership and Startup 2 0 2 3
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23SB300OE501 Industrial Safety 3 0 0 3
2 23SB300OE502 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
3 23SB300OE503 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
4 23SB300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23SB300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
6 23SB300OE506 Cyber Laws 3 0 0 3
7 23SB300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23SB300OE508 Robotics 3 0 0 3

===== PAGE 193 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
193
9 23SB300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23SB300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EN100LS301 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS302 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS303 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS304 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES101 Problem Solving Using- C 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES102 Problem Solving Using Python 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES103 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES104 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES105 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 - 6 5
6 23CS203ES106 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 - 6 5
7 23CS203ES107 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 - 6 5
8 23CS203ES108 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 - 6 5
9 23CS203ES109 Problem Solving Using C# 2 - 6 5
10 23CS203ES110 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 - 6 5
11 23CS203ES111 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 - 6 5
12 23CS203ES112 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 - 6 5
13 23CS203ES113 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 - 6 5
14 23CS203ES114 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 - 6 5
15 23CS203ES115 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 - 6 5
16 23CS203ES116 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 - 6 5
17 23CS203ES117 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 - 6 5
18 23CS203ES118 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 - 6 5
19 23CS203ES119 Objective C
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3

===== PAGE 194 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
194
MCA
R23 Course Structure
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS301PC501 Problem Solving and Programing 3 0 2 4
2 23CS301PC502 Data Structure using C++ 3 0 2 4
3 Program elective-I 3 0 2 4
4 Program elective-II 4 0 0 4
5 Open elective-I 4 0 0 4
6 Open elective-II 2 0 0 2
7 Open elective-III 2 0 0 2
Total 21 0 6 24
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS302PC503 Operating systems 3 - 4 5
2 23CS302PC504 DBMS 3 - 4 5
3 23CS400PC505 Software Engineering 4 - 0 4
4 Program Elective- III 2 - 2 3
5 24BM201RM501 Research Methodology and IPR 2 - 2 3
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -I 1 - - 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -II 1 - - 1
8 Career Readiness Elective 1 4 3
9 23CS001PR501 Miniproject with Seminar - - 2 1
Total 18 0 16 26
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS006PR601 Capstone Project - - 12 6
Program Elective- IV 2 - 2 3
Program Elective- V 2 - 2 3
Program Elective-VI 2 - 2 3
                                   OR
23CS015PR601 Industry Internship/R and D Project/Startup/
Externship - - - 15
Total 6 0 18 15

===== PAGE 195 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
195
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R and D 
Project/Startup/Externship - - 30 15
Total 0 0 30 15
Total Credits 80
Program Electives I to VI
S.No. Course Code Program Electives I to VI Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS201PE501 Internet of Things 2 - 2 3
2 23CS201PE502 Computer Architecture 2 - 2 3
3 23CS201PE503 Mobile Applications development 2 - 2 3
4 23CS201PE504 Cyber Security 2 - 2 3
5 23CS201PE505 Web Technology 2 - 2 3
6 23CS201PE506 Python Programming 2 - 2 3
7 23CS201PE507    Artificial Intelligency 2 - 2 3
8 23CS201PE508 Cloud Application 2 - 2 3
9 23CS201PE509 Distributed Systems 2 - 2 3
10 23CS201PE510 Software quality testing 2 - 2 3
11 23CS201PE511 Image Processing 2 - 2 3
12 23CS201PE512 Digital Forensics 2 - 2 3
13 23CS201PE513 Deep learning 2 - 2 3
14 23CS201PE514 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 2 - 2 3
15 23CS201PE515 Computer Networking 2 - 2 3
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA300OE501 Discrete mathematics 3 0 0 3
2 23RE300OE502 Research Paper Writing 3 0 0 3
3 23MG300OE503 Economics & Accounting 3 0 0 3
4 23MG300OE504 Organisational Behaviour 3 0 0 3
5 23HS300OE505 Intellectual property Laws 3 0 0 3
6 23HS300OE506 Professional Ethics 3 0 0 3
7 23HS300OE507 Environmental sciences 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1

===== PAGE 196 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
196
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
School of Science
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. Bio-Chemistry
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC301PC501 Structure and function of Biomolecules 3 0 2 4
2 23BC301PC502 Metabolisms of biochemistry and biomolecules  3 0 2 4
3 23BC301PC503 Molecular Biology 3 0 2 4
4 23BC301PC504 Bio Analytical Techniques 3 0 2 4
5 Program Elective- I 2 0 2 3
6 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3
7 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3
Total 20 0 10 25
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC401PC504 Microbial Biochemistry 4 0 2 5
2 23BC301PC505 Cell biology and Communication 3 0 2 4
3 Problem Solving Using Programming Electives 2 0 6 5
4 Program Elective- II 2 0 2 3
5 23BC101RM501 Research Methodology and IPR 1 0 2 2
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -I 1 0 0 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective -II 1 0 0 1
8 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
9 23BC001PR501 Mini Project with Seminar 0 - 2 1
Total 15 0 18 25

===== PAGE 197 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
197
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC006PR601 Capstone Project 0 0 12 6
Program Elective- III 2 0 2 3
Program Elective-IV 2 0 2 3
Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3
or
23BC015PR601 Industry Internship/R&D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 7 0 16 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC015PR602 Major Project / Industry Internship/R&D 
Project/Startup/Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 0 0 0 15
Total Credits 80
Program Electives I
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC201PE501 Advanced Chromatography Methods 2 0 2 3
2 23BC201PE502 Biosensors and Bioanalytical Chemistry 2 0 2 3
3 23BC201PE503 Cellular Genetics 2 0 2 3
4 23BC201PE504 Bioinformatics for Bioanalytical Sciences 2 0 2 3
5 23BC201PE505 Molecular Biophysics 2 0 2 3
Program Electives II
1 23BC201PE506 Nurtitional Bio chemistry 2 0 2 3
2 23BC201PE507 Environmental Biochemistry 2 0 2 3
3 23BC201PE508 Bioelectrochemistry 2 0 2 3
4 23BC201PE509 Industrial Biotechnology 2 0 2 3
5 23BC201PE510 Neurochemistry 2 0 2 3
Program Electives III
1 23BC201PE511 Biochemical Toxicology 2 0 2 3
2 23BC201PE512 Molecular Basics of Infectious Human Diseases 2 0 2 3
3 23BC201PE513 Advanced Biochemistry 2 0 2 3
4 23BC201PE514 Enzymology and Applications 2 0 2 3
5 23BC201PE515 Bioinformatics and Computational Biology 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 198 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
198
Program Electives IV
1 23BC201PE516 Epigenetics and Cellular Reprogramming 2 0 2 3
2 23BC201PE517 Immunological Techniques and Assays 2 0 2 3
3 23BC201PE518  Cancer Biology 2 0 2 3
4 23BC201PE519 Animal Biochemistry 2 0 2 3
5 23BC201PE520 Biochemical Pharmacology 2 0 2 3
Open Electives 
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23BC300OE501 English for Research Paper Writing 3 0 0 3
2 23BC300OE502 Business Analytics 3 0 0 3
3 23BC300OE503 Nano-Biotechnology 3 0 0 3
4 23BC300OE504 Cost Management of Engineering Projects 3 0 0 3
5 23BC300OE505 3D Printing 3 0 0 3
6 23BC300OE506 Robotics 3 0 0 3
7 23BC300OE507 Disaster Management 3 0 0 3
8 23BC300OE508 Operations Research 3 0 0 3
9 23BC300OE509 Block Chain Technology 3 0 0 3
10 23BC300OE510 Renewable Energy Sources 3 0 0 3
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 
Credit
1 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
2 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
3 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
4 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Problem Solving Using Programming Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using- C 2 0 6 5
2 23CS203ES502 Problem Solving Using Python 2 0 6 5
3 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using- C++ 2 0 6 5
4 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using- Java 2 0 6 5
5 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using- Kotlin 2 0 6 5
6 23CS203ES506 Problem Solving Using Go Programming 2 0 6 5
7 23CS203ES507 Problem Solving Using Swift Programming 2 0 6 5
8 23CS203ES508 Problem Solving Using- JavaScript 2 0 6 5

===== PAGE 199 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
199
9 23CS203ES509 Problem Solving Using C# 2 0 6 5
10 23CS203ES510 Object Oriented Programming in C++ 2 0 6 5
11 23CS203ES511 Object Oriented Programming in- Python 2 0 6 5
12 23CS203ES512 Object Oriented Programming in Java 2 0 6 5
13 23CS203ES513 Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript 2 0 6 5
14 23CS203ES514 Object Oriented Programming in Ruby 2 0 6 5
15 23CS203ES515 Object Oriented Programming in  Kotlin 2 0 6 5
16 23CS203ES516 Object Oriented Programming in Go 
Programming 2 0 6 5
17 23CS203ES517 Object Oriented Programming in Swift 
Programming 2 0 6 5
18 23CS203ES518 Object Oriented Programming in C# 2 0 6 5
19 23CS203ES519 Objective C 2 0 6 5
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3
Department of Mathematics - School of CS&AI
R23 Proposed Course Structure-M.Sc. (Statistics)
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA400PC501 Mathematical Analysis and Matrix Theory 4 - - 4
2 23MA400PC502 Probability and Statistics 4 - - 4
3 23MA400PC503 Optimization 4 - - 4
4 23MA400PC504 Sampling Theory 4 - - 4
5 23MA400PC505 Distribution Theory 4 - - 4
6 23CS301PC506 Python Programming 3 - 2 4
Total 23 0 2 24
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA401PC507 Regression Analysis 4 - 2 5
2 23MA400PC508 Stochastic Process 4 - - 4
3 Program Elective - I 2 - 2 3
4 23BM101RM501 Research Methodology & IPR 1 - 2 2
5 Problem Solving using Programming Electives 2 - 6 5

===== PAGE 200 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
200
6 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-I 1 - - 1
7 Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Elective-II 1 - - 1
8 23EC002PR502 Mini Project with Seminar 0 - 4 2
9 Career Readiness Elective 1 - 4 3
Total 16 0 20 26
III SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA006PR501 Capstone Project - - 12 6
2 Program Elective - II 2 - 2 3
3 Program Elective - III 2 - 2 3
Open Elective 3 - - 3
OR
1 23MA015PR601 Industry Internship/R&D Project/Startup/
Externship 0 0 0 15
Total 7 0 16 15
IV SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA015PR602 Major Project/Industry Internship/R&D Project/
Startup/Externship - - - 15
Total 0 0 0 15
Total Credits 80
Program Electives I to III
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA201PE501 Time Series Analysis 2 - 2 3
2 23MA201PE502 Actuarial Statistics 2 - 2 3
3 23MA201PE503 Econometrics 2 - 2 3
4 23MA201PE504 Statistical Demography 2 - 2 3
5 23MA201PE505 Data Mining Methods 2 - 2 3
6 23MA201PE506 Mathematical Finance 2 - 2 3
7 23MA201PE507 Big Data Analytics 2 - 2 3
8 23MA201PE508 Statistical Quality Control 2 - 2 3
9 23MA201PE509 Biostatistics 2 - 2 3
10 23MA201PE510 Statstical Decision Theory 2 - 2 3
11 23MA201PE511 Theory of Reliability 2 - 2 3

===== PAGE 201 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
201
12 23MA201PE512 Stochastical Modelling in Finance 2 - 2 3
13 23MA201PE513 Statistical Simulations & Data Analysis using R 2 - 2 3
14 23MA201PE514 Experimental Designs 2 - 2 3
Problem Solving using Programming 
Electives Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23CS203ES501 Problem Solving Using-C 2 - 6 5
5 23CS203ES502 Problem solving Using-Python 2 - 6 5
2 23CS203ES503 Problem Solving Using-C ++ 2 - 6 5
3 23CS203ES504 Problem Solving Using-Java 2 - 6 5
4 23CS203ES505 Problem Solving Using-R 2 - 6 5
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (LHS) Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 
Credit
5 23EN100LS501 Discovering Self 1 0 0 1
6 23SB100LS502 Enterprenuership and Startup 1 0 0 1
7 23SB100LS503 Ethics and Intellectual Property Rights 1 0 0 1
8 23CS100LS504 AI For Daily Use 1 0 0 1
Open Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 23MA300OE501 Data Mining Methods 3 - - 3
2 23MA300OE502 Big Data Analytics 3 - - 3
3 23MA300OE503 Statistical Quality Control 3 - - 3
4 23MA300OE504 Biostatistics 3 - - 3
5 23MA300OE505 Mathematical Analysis and Matrix Theory 3 - - 3
6 23MA300OE506 Stochastic Process 3 - - 3
Career Readiness Electives
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D/J C
1 23HS102CR501 Communication Skills and Personality 
Development 1 - 4 3
2 23HS102CR502 Quantitative Aptitude & Logical Reasoning 1 - 4 3

===== PAGE 202 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
202

===== PAGE 203 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
203
SR UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE 
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Agricultural Engineering)
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 SWE 501* Advanced Soil and Water Conservation 
Engineering
2 0 2 3
2 SWE 502* Applied Watershed Hydrology 2 0 2 3
3 SWE 503 Soil and Water Conservation Structures 2 0 2 3
4 SWE 508 Climate Change and Water Resources 3 0 0 3
Total 9 0 6 12
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 IDE 505 Design of Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation 
Systems
2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
8 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 1 0 0 1
Total 2 0 0 2
                                         Total = 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1  SWE 505* Watershed Management and Modeling 2 0 2 3
2  SWE 507 Remote Sensing and GIS for Land and 
Water Resources management
2 0 2 3
3 SWE 509 Numerical Methods in Hydrology 2 0 0 2

===== PAGE 204 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
204
Total 6 0 4 8
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 CSE 502 Artificial Intelligence 2 0 0 2
5 CSE 504 Soft computing techniques in Engineering 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 501 Statistical Methods for Research Works 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
8 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
9 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
10 SWCE 591                                          Seminar 1
                                         Total = 20
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M. Sc.(Agriculture)  in Agricultural Extension
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 EXT-501* Extension Landscape 2 0 0 2
2 EXT-502* Applied Behaviour Change 2 0 2 3
3 EXT-503* Organizational Behaviour and Development 2 0 2 3
4 EXT-505* Capacity Development 2 0 2 3
Total 8 0 6 11
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C

===== PAGE 205 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
205
5 AEC-507 Agriculture Finance and Project 
Management
2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
8 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 19
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 EXT-504* Research Methodology in Extension 2 0 2 3
2 EXT-506* ICTs for Agricultural Extension and 
Advisory Services
2 0 2 3
3 EXT-507* Evaluation and Impact Assessment 2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 6 9
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 AEC-504 Macro Economics and policy 2 0 0 2
5 AEC-505 Econometrics 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 522 Data Analysis Using Statistical Packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C

===== PAGE 206 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
206
7 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
8 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
9 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
10 EXT 591                                          Seminar 1
                                         Total = 21
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Agriculture) in Agricultural Economics
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 AEC-501* Micro Economic Theory and Application 3 0 0 3
2 AEC-502* Agricultural Production Economics 1 0 2 2
3 AEC-507* Agricultural Finance and Project 
Management
2 0 2 3
4 AEC-509* Research Methodology for Social Sciences 1 0 2 2
Total 7 0 6 10
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 EXT-501 Extension Landscape 2 0 0 2
6 EXT-503 Organizational Behavior and Development 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 STAT 501 Statistical Methods for Applied Sciences 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
8 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
9 PGS 501 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1

===== PAGE 207 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
207
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 AEC-503* Agricultural Marketing and Price Analysis 2 0 2 3
2 AEC-504* Macro Economics and Policy 2 0 0 2
3 AEC-505*  Econometrics 2 0 2 3
4 AEC-508* Linear Programming 1 0 2 2
Total 7 0 6 10
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 EXT-507 Evaluation and Impact Assessment 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 502 Mathematics for Applied Sciences 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
8 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
9 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
10 AEC-591                                          Seminar 1
                                         Total = 20
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M. Sc. (Agriculture) in Agronomy
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week

===== PAGE 208 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
208
L T P/D C
1 AGRON 503* Principles and Practices of Weed 
Management
2 0 2 3
2 AGRON 501* Modern Concepts in Crop Production 3 0 0 3
3 AGRON 512 Dryland Farming and Watershed 
Management
2 0 2 3
4 AGRON 513 Principles and practices of organic farming 2 0 2 3
5 AGRON 509 Agronomy of fodder and forage crops 2 0 2 3
Total 11 0 8 15
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 SOIL 501 Soil physics 2 0 2 3
7 SOIL 502 Soil fertility and fertilizer use 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 4 6
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
8 BIOCHEM 501 Basic Biochemistry 3 0 2 4
Total 3 0 2 4
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
9 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
10 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
11 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
                                         Total = 28
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 AGRON 502* Principles and practices of soil fertility and 
nutrient management 
2 0 2 3
2 AGRON 504* Principles and Practices of Water 
Management 
2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 4 6
Minor

===== PAGE 209 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
209
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
3 SOIL 511 Management of problematic soils and 
water
1 0 2 2
Total 1 0 2 2
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
6 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
0 0 2 1
Total 0 0 4 2
                                         Total = 13
III & IV SEM
1 AGRON 550                                          Seminar 1
2 AGRON 560 Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Agriculture) in ENTOMOLOGY
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 ENT- 501 Insect  Morphology 2 0 2 3
2 ENT- 502 Insect Anatomy & Physiology 2 0 2 3
3 ENT- 505 Biological control of  Insect Pest and 
Weeds
2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 6 9
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 PL.PATH 501 Mycology 2 0 2 3
5 PL PATH 502 Plant virology 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 4 6

===== PAGE 210 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
210
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
8 PGS 501 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 ENT-504 Insect Ecology 2 0 2 3
2 ENT- 506 Toxicology of Insecticides 2 0 2 3
3 ENT- 508 Concept of  Integrated Pest Management 2 0 0 2
4 ENT- 509 Pest of Field crops 2 0 2 3
Total 8 0 6 11
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 PL PATH 506 Techniques in Detection and Diagnosis of 
plant diseases
0 0 4 2
Total 0 0 4 2
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 522 Data analysis using statistical packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
8 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1

===== PAGE 211 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
211
9 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
                                         Total = 19
III & IV SEM
1 ENT 591                                          Seminar 1
2 ENT 599 Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Agicultural)  in Food Science and Nutrition 
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 FN501* Macro and Micronutrients in Human 
Nutrition
3 0 0 3
2 FN502* Public Health and Nutrition 2 0 2 3
3 FN503* Techniques in Food Analysis 1 0 4 3
4 FN 504* Diet Therapy 2 0 2 3
Total 8 0 8 12
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 BIOCHEM 509 Nutritional Biochemistry 2 0 2 3
6 Food Microbiology 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 4 6
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
8 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
9 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
10 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
                                         Total = 24

===== PAGE 212 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
212
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 FN506 Developments in Nutrition and Immunity 2 0 0 2
2 FN509 Food Safety and Standards 2 0 2 3
3 FN512 Food Processing Technology 2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 4 8
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 Food Science and Technology 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 STAT 522 Data Analysis Using Statistical Packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 PGS 502 Technical writing and communication skills 1 0 0 1
7 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 2 0 0 2
                                         Total = 16
III & IV SEM
Master’s Seminar 1
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M. Sc.(Agriculture)  in Genetics and Plant Breeding (GPB)
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 GPB501* Principles of Genetics 2 0 2 3
2 GPB502* Principles of Plant Breeding 2 0 2 3
3 GPB506* Molecular Breeding and Bioinformatics 2 0 2 3
4 GPB511 Crop Breeding-I(Kharif Crops) 2 0 2 3

===== PAGE 213 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
213
Total 8 0 8 12
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 PP 503 Physiological and Molecular Responses of 
Plants To Abiotic Stresses
2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
8 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 20
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 GPB506* Molecular Breeding and Bioinformatics 2 0 2 3
2 GPB 504 Varietal Development and Maintenance 
Breeding
1 0 2 2
3 GPB516 Breeding for Stress Resistance and Climate 
Change
2 0 2 3
Total 5 0 6 8
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 PP 502 Plant Developmental Biology –Physiological 
and Molecular Basis
2 0 0 2
5 PP 508 Morphogenesis, Tissue Culture and 
Transformation
2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting

===== PAGE 214 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
214
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 STAT 522 Data Analysis Using Statistical Packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
8 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
9 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
                                         Seminar 1
                                         Total = 20
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M. Sc.(Agriculture)  in Plant Pathology
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 PL PATH 501 Mycology 2 0 2 3
2 PL PATH 502 Plant Virology 2 0 2 3
3 PL PATH 503 Plant pathogenic Prokaryotes 2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 6 9
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 ENT 505 Biological control of insects pests and 
weeds
2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses

===== PAGE 215 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
215
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
7 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 17
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 PL PATH 504 Plant Nematology 2 0 2 3
2 PL PATH 505 Principles of Plant pathology 2 0 2 3
3 PL PATH 506 Techniques in detection and diagnosis of 
plant diseases
0 0 4 2
4 PL PATH 515 Diseases of field and medicinal crops 2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 10 11
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 ENT 506 Toxicology of insecticides 2 0 2 3
6 ENT 508 Concepts of Integrated Pest Management 2 0 0 2
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 STAT 522 Data Analysis Using Statistical Packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
8 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
9 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
10 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
11                                          Seminar 1
                                         Total = 23

===== PAGE 216 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
216
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Horticulture) 
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 FSC 501* Tropical Fruit Production 2 0 2 3
2 FSC 502* Sub-Tropical and Temperate Fruit 
Production
2 0 2 3
3 FSC 503*  Propagation and Nursery Management of 
Fruit Crops
2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 6 9
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 PP 503 Physiological and Molecular Responses of 
Plants to Abiotic Stresses
2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 STAT 511 Experimental Designs 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common Compulsory Courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
6 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
1 0 0 1
7 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
Total 1 0 2 2
                                         Total = 17
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 FSC 504* Breeding of Fruit Crops 2 0 2 3
2 FSC 505 Systematics of Fruit Crops 2 0 2 3
3 FSC 506 Canopy Management in Fruit Crops 1 0 2 2

===== PAGE 217 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
217
4 FSC 507 Growth and Development of Fruit Crops 2 0 2 3
Total 7 0 8 11
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 PP 502 Plant Developmental Biology – 
Physiological and Molecular Basis 
2 0 0 2
6 PP 508 Morphogenesis, Tissue Culture and  
Transformation 
2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 2 5
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 STAT 522 Data Analysis Using Statistical Packages 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
8 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
9 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
10 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
1 0 0 1
Total 1 0 4 3
11 FSC 591                                          Seminar 1
                                         Total = 23
III & IV SEM
Master’s Thesis Research 30
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
R23 Course Structure-M.Sc. (Agriculture) in Soil Science 
I SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 SOIL 501 Soil Physics 2 0 2 3
2 SOIL 502 Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Use 2 0 2 3
3 SOIL 504 Soil Mineralogy, Genesis and Classification 2 0 2 3
4 SOIL 510 Analytical Technique and Instrumental 
Methods in Soil and Plant Analysis
0 0 4 2

===== PAGE 218 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
218
Total 6 0 10 11
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
5 AGRON 501 Modern concept in crop production 3 0 0 3
6 AGRON 512 Dryland farming and watershed 
management
2 0 2 3
Total 5 0 2 6
Supporting
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
7 STAT 553 Statistical Methods 2 0 2 3
8 STAT 563 Design of Experiments 2 0 2 3
Total 4 0 4 6
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
9 PGS 501 Library and Information Services 0 0 2 1
10 PGS 504 Basic Concepts in Laboratory Techniques 0 0 2 1
11 PGS 503 Intellectual Property and its management 
in Agriculture
0 0 2 1
Total 0 0 6 3
                                         Total = 26
II SEM
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
1 SOIL 505 Soil Chemistry 2 0 2 3
2 SOIL 506 Soil Biology and Biochemistry 2 0 2 3
3 SOIL 508 Soil, Water and Air Pollution 2 0 2 3
Total 6 0 6 9
Minor
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C
4 AGRON 506 Agronomy of major Cereals and Pulses 2 0 2 3
Total 2 0 2 3
Common compulsory courses
S.No. Course Code Course Hours / Week
L T P/D C

===== PAGE 219 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
219
5 PGS 502 Technical Writing and Communications 
Skills
0 0 2 1
6 PGS 505 Agricultural Research, Research Ethics and 
Rural Development Programmes
0 0 2 1
Total 0 0 4 2
7 SOIL 591                    Masters Seminar  1
                                         Total = 15
III & IV SEM
1 SOIL 599                Master’s Thesis Research 30

===== PAGE 220 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
220
Career and Job Placement Assistance Policy
1.  About the Career and Job placement Assistance Center Center (CJAC): 
Primary objective of CJAC is to assist students in understanding organizational requirements 
and prepare them not only for their initial job placements but also for long-term career 
success. The Center takes right steps in identifying the demands of the current industry 
and prepares our students according to the need. Adequate emphasis is given for 
Technical, soft skill development complementing the regular academic programmes. 
The objective of this policy is to ensure that the placement and internship opportunities for 
registered students are governed by fair and consistent principles, along with effective 
administration. The aim is to provide a positive experience and outcome for all stakeholders involved. 
3. Placement Rules & Regulations: 
3.1 General Guidelines:
• The University’s Placement Office will facilitate the placement of all eligible students 
who are enrolled in the respective programmes. 
• All students who wish to avail assistance of the Placement cell in securing placement 
or internship are required to register themselves with the CJAC. 
• All Students need to ensure that their Data is correctly entered at CJAC office. If 
there are any changes then they need to contact CJAC office immediately.
• The eligibility criteria set by visiting companies will be considered final.
• Registered students must attend all training programs and workshops arranged by 
the university for enhancing the chances to get good placements and internships.
• Students are encouraged to apply for a passport and PAN card as many companies 
require these documents during the induction process.
• It is the student’s responsibility to follow all deadlines arising out of the placement 
processes. For this purpose, the student must regularly check the emails, messages, or 
notices from the online portal and comply with the actions as required within the indicated 
timelines. Non-adherence to the timelines may lead to denial of the subsequent process 
outcomes such as interviews etc.
• Based on company instructions, students may be sent to attend pooled campus 
placement drives in other places. Students should inform their parents about the placement 
process, venue, and timings well in advance.
• Dress professionally for the pre-placement talk/recruitment process; casual attire 
is not allowed.
• Read the job description carefully before applying for any placement opportunity.
• For securing a job, a maximum of five attempts of selection rounds will be allowed. If a 
student fails to obtain a confirmed job offer after appearing for selection process of five 
organizations, then he/she will automatically opt out of the placement assistance from 
the University till the management doesn’t allow. 
• University extends support to students who may not have been selected by companies 
during the placement process in the forms of Career Counseling, Skill Enhancement 

===== PAGE 221 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
221
Programs, Interview Preparation workshops and Alumni Support
• Students /are expected to adhere to a code of conduct during placement activities. This 
includes professional behavior, punctuality, and proper communication with both the CJAC 
and prospective employers.
• Many a times it can happen that campus recruitment process can stretch till late night. All 
students have to inform this to their parents and have to arrange their own transportation.
•  Joining schedule completely rests with the company’s discretion and market scenario. 
All students need to join on time as per the communication received from the Company.
• Sole discretion of CJAC to change the policies based on requirements.
3.2 Eligibility
• Students should register by submitting their information in the prescribed format 
provided by CJAC
• The entire requisite fee has been paid to the University.
• Satisfactory conduct with no disciplinary action throughout the program.
• Minimum 90% attendance in the proposed job ready trainings
• Successfully completed the semester examinations/course with a CGPA equivalent 
to 6.0 or higher, and with no backlogs
3.3 Placement Process
• Companies are invited through email, providing relevant information and job 
descriptions. 
• Companies fill out the annexure and submit it back to the CJAC via email. 
• Students will receive details of the job descriptions via email/ Portal/Whatsapp 
group/other platforms
• Data of interested candidates is shared with the company
• Pre-placement talk (PPT) & Placement drive dates are finalized through discussions 
between the company and the placement department.
• Once confirmed by the company, students are notified of the PPT & Placement 
drive dates.
• Selection process on placement drive date: Written Exam (Aptitude / Technical 
Test), Group Discussion, Technical Interview, HR Interview, Verification of Documents, 
Any other as per the company request.
• Final result shared with CJAC and CJAC shares it with the students
3.4. Job Acceptance Policy:
• Institute follows ‘One Student–One Job’ policy. After being offered a job by any company, 
a student is not allowed to participate further in the placement process. However, students 
who have been selected by a company on a CTC (package) ‘X’ may be allowed to participate in 
selection process of one additional company offering a CTC package not less than ‘2 X’.
• Students from Core branches from Non-CSE who are placed in software companies will 
be allowed to appear in Core companies of their branch.
• Any student placed with non-technical profiles (Marketing, Content Development, Business 
Development etc.) will get opportunities in further campus drives with technical profiles. (Not 

===== PAGE 222 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
222
applicable for management school students, placed with the Technical Sales profiles)
• Students may get multiple offers due to non-disclosure of the result in time by the 
company.
• After having accepted a job offer, if a student does not wish to join a company due to 
genuine reasons such as pursuing        higher studies, then the student is bound to inform the 
CJAC and abide by the agreements/bonds they may have entered into with the company.
3.5. Early Joining:
• Companies may indicate early joining in their offer letters. If a student is allowed 
to join early, then student would have to give an undertaking whereby student would 
diligently undertake the remaining academic work and report to the concerned faculty 
member on the mutually agreed days. The student must manage the leave of absence from 
the company, to write their final examinations and complete other academic requirements 
in time. .
• The University does not encourage early joining as it involves loss of academic 
credits which may potentially lead to incomplete course work. However, such early joining 
may be permitted depending on the merits of the case & with recommendation by the 
respective head.
3.6. DEBARMENT/BLACKLISTING GROUNDS FOR STUDENTS:
• If involved in any in-disciplinary activity or engaged in malpractices.
• On account of Students giving wrong data/information in placement cell
• Students cannot drop out from selection process once shortlisted for further rounds 
after Aptitude Test.
• Any kind of misbehavior/complaints reported by the company officials/volunteers
• Students are not allowed to contact Company / HR Delegates directly for any 
reason. 
• If a student is eligible as per the Job Description & chooses not to apply for 
three consecutive eligible job postings, then it may validly imply that the student is not 
interested in pursuing the placement assistance process. 
3.7. Campus Recruitment Training:
Campus Recruitment Training is designed to help students improve the chances to get a 
right career opportunity and make industry ready. SR University shall assist participants with 
professional development and career advancement processes equipping students with the skills 
that are required for employment. Soft Skills Training, Resume and Cover Letter Development, 
Social Media Profile Generation, Art of Networking, Assessment, Mock Interviews and Group 
Discussions, Technical Trainings

===== PAGE 223 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
223
Appendix 1
DECLARAION
Please fill all information in CAPITAL LETTERS 
A. STUDENT INFORMATION
Student Name …………………………University Enrolment No…….…………
Program ………….Stream ……… School……………………Batch ……………
Your Postal Address  ……………..……………………………………………………………………..
……………………………………………………….…PIN………………….…
Student contact no. (M)…………….……….....Landline (R)……………………...
Mother’s contact no. (M) ………………Father’s contact no. (M)……………........
Primary Email Id ……………………………………………….…………………
Alternate Email Id………………………………………………………………...
B. DECLARATION
1. Do you need placement assistance? Yes   No
1.1 If no, I hereby wish to declare that I do not require Final Placement/Summer Internship 
from campus due to following reason
Entrepreneur .
Further Studies in India. 
Further Studies Abroad. 
Joining Family Business.
Other Personal Reasons.
Signature / Name of the student………………………………..   Date ……………
Paste your 
formal colour 
photo here 
(Mandatory)
 
 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 224 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
224
Hostel Handbook of Rules & Regulations
SRU Hostels  - ‘Your Home away from Home’
The primary purpose of hostels is to offer students with a “home away from home” where 
they can feel comfortable and perform to their full potential. The rules and regulations are 
formulated to ensure that the hostel’s property is safeguarded, that students residing in the 
hostel are living in a healthy environment, and that students maintain discipline. There are 
separate hostels for boys and girls on campus with features included.
Hostel Guiding Principles
Student Focus
Putting students first – Doing what is in the best interest of the students.
Caring
Demonstrating a genuine concern for the wellbeing of every student.
Respect
Give due consideration for and valuing everyone’s needs, perspective and opinions.
Giving back
Recognizing the need for, and taking an active role in, the stewardship of SR University and 
its environment
Perseverance
Continuing to do what’s right, even when it’s difficult or time-consuming.
Integrity and Accountability
Demonstrating honesty and candor in all matters.
Concern for the Environment
Taking responsibility for maintaining and enhancing all aspects of the campus.
Faith
A belief in one’s own and others’ goodness and ability to have a positive impact on others 
and the world at large.
Acceptance
Loving and including one another for whom they are, regardless of color, age, size, gender, 
race, ethnicity, community affiliation, disability, or sexual orientation because SRU students 
and staff are Role models, not bullies.
Hostel Features
• Quadruple occupancy rooms with modular furniture fittings.
• Air-Conditioned and non-Air-Conditioned rooms with 24x7 Wi-Fi connectivity.

===== PAGE 225 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
225
• Indian and Modern European style common bathrooms and toilets.
• Every student is allotted with a bed, mattress, study table, chair and cupboard.
• Hot water bath facility from 7 to 9 in the morning & 7 to 9 in the evening.
• RO treated water coolers for drinking water on every floor of the hostel blocks.
• 24x7 Caretakers for routine care/emergencies deployed in every hostel block. 
• Dedicated Psychologist for student counseling.
• 24x7 Security, CCTV Surveillance on all entry and exit points, Lifts, staircases and 
corridors in every hostel block.
• Common reading rooms.
• Recreational area with TV, Table Tennis, Chess, Carom, Board Games etc.
• Shuttle badminton court in every hostel block.
• Various Cuisines available in the canteen and kiosks inside the campus. 
• Canara Bank ATM, convenience stores etc.
• Gym Facilities with exclusive timing for girls with trainer.
• Laundry Services.
• Swimming Pool Facility (coming soon)
• Online software to handle the hostel facilities.
• Treatment plants like WTP and STP. Biogas, Solar Water Heating, Solar Power systems 
and the use of LED lights for energy conservation and green building concept.
• The hostel blocks are fire compliant and well equipped with fire-fighting systems like fire 
hydrants, fire extinguishers, emergency lights, public announcement system, etc.
• All the hostel elevators are auto rescue device enabled (ARD)
• Provision store in every hostel block.
Hostel Management Team
SRU hostels are managed by the following team:
1. Dean Student Welfare
2. Wardens
3. Managers
4. Administrative officers
5. Caretakers
Student Proctors
Proctors assume responsibilities on their appointed floors and take on minor supervisory 
roles. Proctors assist with the development of a healthy, fun living and learning environment.

===== PAGE 226 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
226
Building community, developing student leaders, mediating conflicts, recruiting future 
leaders, advocating student rights, and acting in a manner that serves as an example to 
the greater student body by caring for others signify what it means to be a Proctor who 
gives back to the SRU community.
Proctors are under the direct supervision of the Warden. Proctors are outgoing students 
with character, and strong interpersonal organization, communication and team skills.
The following are Proctor qualifications:
• Proctors must be hostel students in good academic standing.
• Proctors must be either a UG or PG student during the year in which they are serving.
• The maximum tenure will be one year during their entire stay in the hostel.
Students Hostel Committee
Constitution of Students Hostel Committee (SHC)
1. General Body: Each hostel will have a General Body consisting of all students of the 
hostel. There shall be a separate Students Hostel Committee (SHC) for each hostel.
2. Eligibility for SHC: All the students of the concerned hostel shall be eligible to be 
elected to the SHC except students after 6 th semester for four-year programs and 4 th 
semester for three-year programs.
3. Tenure: Office-bearers of the SHC will be for ONE YEAR or until the next SHC is elected, 
whichever is earlier, provided the Office-bearers of the SHC continue to be bonafide 
students of the University.
4. Election and Responsibilities of the office-bearers of the SHC:
 a. Each hostel is entitled to have five office-bearers for the SHC, namely:
  i. Chairperson, 
  ii. General Secretary, 
  iii. Sports Secretary, 
  iv. Cultural Secretary, and 
  v. Health Secretary
 b. Office bearers of the SHC are selected directly by the warden of the hostel by the 
following process:
  i. Interested students apply for five office-bearers position through Sruniv portal.
  ii. The warden will interview the students and select the office-bearers.
  iii. In this matter, the decision of the Warden is final and binding.
 c. The tenure of the Office-bearers is one year and hence students in the last semester 
of their program of study will not be eligible to apply.
 d. All full-time students of the hostel are eligible for applying for one post.

===== PAGE 227 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
227
 e. In the event of any post falling vacant, the warden shall select anyone at their 
discretion.
5. Designation and Responsibilities of the Student Hostel Committee Members:
 a. Chairperson: The Chairperson will be the Chief Executive of the SHC who will chair 
the meetings of the committee and participate in the deliberations and will have only a 
casting vote.
 b. General Secretary: The General Secretary will assist the Chairperson in the activities 
of the Committee. It will be the duty of the General Secretary of the Committee to issue all 
notices, convening meetings of the General Body and to keep the minutes properly under 
safe custody. In the absence of the Chairperson, the General Secretary will carry out the 
duties of the Chairperson.
 c. Sports Secretary: The duty of the Sports Secretary is to look into all matters 
relating to sports in the hostel and upkeep of facilities where provided.
 d. Cultural Secretary: The duty of the Cultural Secretary is to look into all matters 
relating to literary and cultural events in the hostel.
 e. Health Secretary: The duty of the Health Secretary is to look into all matters 
relating to health and sanitation in the hostel.
6. The Office-bearers of Hostel Committee individually or collectively are not allowed to 
interfere in the day-to-day administration of the hostel. Their mandate is to liaison 
between the students and the Warden’s Office. Any interference in the day-to-day 
administration of the hostel shall be treated as indiscipline and necessary disciplinary 
action will be initiated against such Office-bearer(s)
Counsellors
Mental well-being of the students is essential for them to study and grow into healthy 
individuals. Student life can be sometimes stressful and to address their mental wellbeing, 
the university has a counseling center, with clinical psychologist offering counseling services 
to students. The students are informed about the counseling services during the orientation 
program. Students who wish to avail the services of the Counsellor can approach their office 
directly or can also book an appointment through call/WhatsApp on the following numbers:
• Boys Hostel – Mr. Benson – 78935 25257
• Girls Hostel – Ms. Swapna – 72076 72300
Hostel Handbook of Rules & Regulations
The students will be provided with this detailed handbook of Hostel Rules and Regulations 
at the time of admission, which will be available on our hostel online student portal also. It 
is mandatory for students to accept the same before they proceed to book the room online.
The student will receive an email with detailed instructions to book their hostel rooms, on 
their registered email Id after their admission is confirmed with the university.
It is expected that students take care of all assets with extreme diligence. Ill-handling of 
any asset by the student will be borne by the students either individually or collectively. In 
this, the decision of the Warden/Grievance Redressal Committee will be final.

===== PAGE 228 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
228
Student Undertaking Form - All the fresher students / 1st-time hostelers are needed to sign 
the undertaking form at the time of room allocation.
Room Allotment
Rooms will be allotted on a first-come-first-serve basis after the full payment of Hostel fees. 
Allocation of the rooms will be done through our online student portal. For those who are 
not able to get through the online access, a provision for such assistance will be available 
in the hostel during the room allocation.
Students are required to bring one passport-size photograph and a printed copy of the 
online payment registration receipt.
Every student is allotted with a bed, mattress, study table, chair and cupboard.
Allotment made to a student is subject to cancellation if he/she fails to occupy the room 
in the prescribed time. Students will also forfeit their rooms if they fail to clear all their 
hostel dues before the due date. In such cases, they will be asked to vacate the hostel. 
Any student rusticated from the university for disciplinary reasons will need to immediately 
vacate from Hostel and in such case Hostel fees will not be refunded.
Hostel accommodation is allotted purely on the condition that the student agrees to abide 
by all the rules and regulations of the hostel. The  Warden reserves the right to evict the 
resident from the hostel at any time on disciplinary grounds.
The Warden/ hostel management reserves the right to break open rooms in case of any 
violation of hostel rules, suspected unlawful activities or on the basis of security risk 
perceived.
Change of Room
Students must occupy rooms specifically allotted to them. They are not allowed to change 
rooms except with the written permission of the Manager and approved by the Warden.
Application of change of room is online and a student will be permitted to change the room 
only after one month of room allocation as per availability and allowed only one time with 
a valid reason.
The shift will be permitted only on production of a receipt of payment and approval from 
the Warden.
Warden has full discretion on allotment and change of rooms at any time.
Vacate the Hostel Room
If a hostel resident student wants to vacate the hostel for any reason, their parents have 
to submit a written consent letter to the warden’s office.
The no dues form has to collected by the student from the Warden’s office and submitted 
back after all dues are cleared.
Only after all the dues are cleared the caution deposit will be processed for refund.
Mess Timings & Rules
• Students has to keep their identity cards at ll times and produce it to the mess supervisor.

===== PAGE 229 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
229
• The mess timings are as follows and the students should strictly adhere to these timings: 
 Breakfast   : 7.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. 
 Lunch   : 12.00 noon to 2.00 p.m. 
 Snacks   : 5.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. 
 Dinner   : 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.
• The system of self service will be followed in all the messes.
• The quantity of food will be unlimited except in the case of special items.
• Students on no account whatsoever will be permitted to take food outside the mess. Nor 
can they take mess utensils such as plate, spoon, tumblers, etc, to their rooms.
• No food will be served in the rooms of the hostel for any student unless sick and entered 
in the register to take sick food tray for the food to be served in their rooms.
• No diner shall waste food. Paying fees does not entitle a diner to waste food.
• Assist in maintaining the mess and surroundings neat and clean. No notices shall be 
pasted on walls. Notices put up on the notice boards should not be removed by the 
diners.
• All diners shall interact with the mess staff in the dining hall in a courteous manner.
• After eating food, diners shall leave the cup, plate, waste food etc. in the designated 
bins.
• Any violation of these rules will attract fines and disciplinary actions.
Hostel Rules
Ragging in any form is strictly prohibited. 
Hostel authorities are responsible for room allotment and their decision is final and binding.
Hostel timings are to be strictly followed by the residents. Relaxation in the hostel and the 
mess timings are not entertained under any circumstances. 
Students should not entertain any unauthorized guest to enter the hostel.
The students are expected to be inside the hostel by 9.00 pm on weekdays and at 9.30 
pm on weekends. 
The students are expected to give their biometric roll call before 9.30 pm on weekdays  
and before 10.00 pm on weekends. 
The Hostel In & Out pass management will be administered through the online Sruniv 
portal. Students who want to go out of the campus should apply in the portal and a SMS is 
sent the parents/guardian phone for information and permission. 
Fine for late arrival and absence for biometric roll call:
a. Rs. 100/- for first time 
b. Rs. 500/- for second time 

===== PAGE 230 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
230
c. Suspension from hostel for third time without refund of hostel fee
Note: Late arrival will be informed to parents/local guardian and warden every time. Based 
on the reason for late arrival the matter may be escalated to the Students’ Grievance 
Committee by the warden at any time.
Any other violation will be dealt with on case-by-case basis. 
Students who have obtained Roll Call Extension are expected to give their biometric roll 
call once they return to the hostel.
Roll call extension will be given for individuals, members of clubs and festivals till 11.00 pm.
The students requesting roll call extension must get permission from Warden through Sruniv 
portal online indicating the venue and number of students requesting roll call extension 
before 4 pm on the day of extension.
Students can register for absence in the biometric systems available in the hostel premises 
before they leave. 
The students can leave the hostel premises early in the morning hours by 5.30 am by 
making an entry in the students’ movement register available in the security office in each 
hostel block.
Residents are expected to maintain discipline in the hostel and not to cause inconvenience 
to other fellow inmates. In this regard the time period from 10.00 pm to 7.00 am treated 
as “Silence Hour“ and students are expected to maintain silence and not disturb others 
during these hours. 
Students should not possess or consume any tobacco/alcohol/drug items inside the campus. 
If found, the student will be reported to the Grievance Redressal Committee by the warden 
for disciplinary actions. 
The students should not screen pirated / unauthorized / unlicensed movies in their laptops 
and common room. Any violation will be dealt severely. Punishment for the same will be 
decided by the Grievance Redressal Committee.
The use of electrical appliances such as immersion heaters, electric stove / heaters / 
electric iron is forbidden in any of the rooms allotted for residence. Private cooking in the 
hostels / student’s room is strictly forbidden. Such appliances, if found will be confiscated 
and a fine will also be imposed. 
The uses of audio systems which may cause inconvenience to other occupants are not 
allowed. The use of personal TV, VCR and VCD / DVD is prohibited. The students should not 
hire objectionable CDs from outside. 
When the students go out of their room, they should switch off all the electrical / electronic 
appliances, and keep it locked (at all times). Violation will attract suitable penalty and 
punishment as decided by authorities.
Cooking inside the rooms is strictly not allowed. Anyone found doing so will be punished.
Food and other belongings of mess if found in the room will result in fines.
Residents are requested to keep their belongings safe. Jewels and other costly items are 

===== PAGE 231 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
231
not to be possessed in the hostel.
Institute and hostel authorities are not responsible for loss of any of their belongings.
General cleanliness in rooms, bathrooms, toilets and verandahs must be followed by all the 
inmates if not, strict actions will be taken.
Residents are responsible for the upkeep of rooms along with table, cot, electrical fittings, 
etc. If any damage occurs, the charges for repair/replacement/white washing etc. will be 
deducted from their hostel deposit/advance.
The residents should also take the responsibility of common walls, fittings in the corridors, 
bathrooms, quadrangle etc. If any damage or misuse occurs the amount towards the cost 
of repair/replacement shall be equally shared by all the residents of the hostel and the 
same shall be deducted from their hostel caution deposit.
Students are required to switch off the tube lights and fans before they leave their rooms.
Students are not allowed to possess or use powered vehicles in hostel/institute. 
For any activity within the hostel such as meeting, and election residents must obtain prior 
permission from the Warden.
Students are not allowed to organize their own personal trips without prior permission from 
wardens and parents. No last-minute permission is granted. Should be intimated at least a 
day before leaving.
Students should avoid moving to uncommon places in the campus and should not indulge 
in misconduct in campus.
Any inconvenience regarding stay, food, or any other issues related to hostel are to be 
intimated to the hostel office immediately for necessary action.
Student are expected to obey the hostel rules and regulations during their stay in the 
hostel. Violation of hostel rules by the residents will attract heavy fine for once, followed by 
disciplinary actions, if repeated.
Any students, who are found misbehaving/indulging in an activity that spoils the repute 
of the institute, will be immediately suspended from the hostel with the consent of the 
Warden/Vice-Chancellor.
Random checks for ensuring discipline will be conducted from time to time.
Visitors
All visitors to the hostel including the parents/guardians will have to make necessary entries 
in the visitor’s book available at the hostel entrance with the security guard.
The visit of men students to the women’s hostel and vice-versa is restricted.
The visitor can meet the student in the common area/visitors’ room and NOT allowed enter 
the students hostel rooms.
Visitors are allowed only till 8.00 pm on all days. 
If parents/guardians wish to stay on campus, they can book the guest house on a payment 
basis based on availability through the main university office.

===== PAGE 232 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
232
Student Conduct & Discipline Code
Preamble
The SR University (SRU) is known for maintaining high standards of discipline on campus 
and hostels to ensure free and congenial environment for its students to pursue their 
education. The university shall provide a healthy environment to its students, without 
infringing the academic freedom and rights of any of its students.
All the students in the university shall at all times display good behavior. All disciplinary 
action cases shall be dealt in a fair manner. Every student shall always display good behavior, 
maintain decorum and dignity, observe code of conduct both inside and outside the campus. 
Every student shall show respect and courtesy to faculty, administrators, staff and fellow 
students and any violation of the code of conduct or breach of any rule of the university 
shall constitute an act of indiscipline and will be liable for disciplinary action.
The student discipline system is designed for an educational system and does not function 
as a court of law. Therefore, procedural issues, including the consideration of evidence, are 
handled in a manner consistent with an educational focus.
Applicability of the Code
The code shall be applicable to all students admitted to the university and including 
any academic program, activity or event conducted by the university. It is the duty and 
responsibility of each and every student from the date of admission to get acquainted with 
all the rules and code of conduct. All students are required to strictly adhere to this code 
and this code would be binding on and enforceable against them.
Responsibilities of Students
It shall be the responsibility of the student:
To produce Identity Card whenever asked by any official/staff of the university.
To foster and maintain a vibrant academic, intellectual, cultural and social atmosphere 
which is consistent with the objectives of the university.
To access all educational opportunities and benefits available at the university and make 
good use of them to prosper academically.
To respect the laws of the country, human rights and to conduct in a responsible and 
dignified manner at all times. To report any violation of this code to the functionaries under 
this code.
Student joining in any academic program of the university will have to give an undertaking 
to the effect that the student will comply with the provisions envisaged in this code in letter 
and spirit and even if it is not given, they will be bound by the provisions of this code.
Acts of Indiscipline and Misconduct–Punishment and Penalties
Any act of indiscipline and misconduct committed by a student inside or outside the campus 
shall be considered to be an act of violation of the code of conduct of the university. The 
acts of violation of discipline shall include:

===== PAGE 233 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
233
SNo. Type of Misconduct 1st Stage/Level 2ndStage/Level
1 Groupism of any kind that would 
distort the harmony
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
Undertaking and 
recording in dossier of 
student with Rs. 10000 
fine and debarring from 
participation in Sports/
NCC/ NSS/ fest and 
other such activities for 
1 year
2 Possession or consumption 
of narcotic drugs, tobacco, 
alcohol and other intoxicating 
substances
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/ Hostel 
Fee and Deposits.
3 Indulging in anti-institutional, 
anti-national, antisocial, 
communal, immoral or political 
expressions and activities within 
the campus and hostels.
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.
4 Organizing, attending or 
participating in any activity or 
agitation sponsored by politically 
based organizations
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.
5 Damaging or defacing University 
property or the property of 
members of the University or 
any other property inside or 
outside the University campus
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine up to 3 times the actual 
cost
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.
6 Bring outsiders to the campus 
or hostels without specific 
permission
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
7 Distribute or circulate 
unauthorized notices, 
pamphlets, leaflets etc. or 
writing on walls, furniture, 
switch boards etc., or sticking 
posters within the campus or 
hostels
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
Rs. 5000 per violation
8 An assault upon, or 
intimidation of, or insulting 
behavior towards a faculty, 
staff, employee or student or 
any other person including 
hostel staff
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 10000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.

===== PAGE 234 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
234
9 Any type of harassment whether 
physical, verbal, mental, sexual 
or electronic quarrelling, 
fighting and passing 
derogatory remarks in the 
University premises against 
fellow students/ teachers/
employees/canteen and mess 
workers etc.
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 10000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.
10 Committing forgery, 
tampering with or misuse of 
the University documents or 
records, identification cards, 
etc.
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 10000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits.
11 Furnishing false certificate 
or false information to, any 
office under the control and 
jurisdiction of the University
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
period of 2 weeks and 
informing the parents 
and a fine amount of 
Rs. 10000/-
12 Not disclosing one’s identity, or 
not showing University identity 
card, when asked to do so by 
an employee or officer of the 
University who is authorized to 
do so
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student
13 Collect money either by request 
or by coercion from others 
within the Campus or hostels
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
period of 2 weeks and 
informing the parents 
and a fine amount of 
Rs. 10000/-
14 Responding to any call of or 
any form of strike, procession 
or agitation including slogan 
shouting, dharna, gherao, 
burning in effigy or indulge in 
anything which may harm the 
peaceful atmosphere of the 
university and shall abstain 
from violence in the campus 
and hostels and even outside.
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
period of 2 weeks and 
informing the parents 
and a fine amount of 
Rs. 10000/-
15 Possession or usage of 
weapons, explosives or anything 
that causes injury/ damage to 
the life of any human being or 
property
Suspension for a period of 
2 weeks and informing the 
parents and a fine amount 
of Rs. 10000/- in case of 
day scholar
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits in case of 
hosteller.

===== PAGE 235 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
235
16 Misuse of Internet and social 
media
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 10000/-
Undertaking and 
recording in dossier 
of student and a fine 
amount of Rs. 20000/- 
and legal actions if 
required.
17 Use motor vehicles in the 
campus/ hostel
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
Undertaking and 
recording in dossier- 
of student and a fine 
amount of Rs. 10000/-
18 Guilty of theft of university/
Hostel property or property of 
other students
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student, 
recovery of the property/
cost and a fine amount of 
Rs. 5000/-
Suspension for a 
semester and forfeiting 
the Semester/Hostel Fee 
and Deposits and legal 
actions if required.
19 Leave the campus when the 
classes are going on without 
the permission of the Faculty/
Warden/Head/
Mentor/Dean
Undertaking and recording in dossier of student
20 Not using waste bins for 
dispensing waste materials 
within the campus including 
classrooms, sitting areas, 
grounds, hostels, offices, 
canteens and messes.
Undertaking and recording in dossier of student and 
a fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
21 Playing music at high volume 
or shouting, which may cause 
disturbance to other inmates in 
the hostel premises.
Undertaking and recording in dossier of student and 
a fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
22 Possession of electric appliances 
or cooking in the hostel rooms
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
Undertaking and 
recording in dossier 
of student and a fine 
amount of Rs. 10000/-23 Organizing birthday parties, 
religious gatherings, prayer 
sessions, bhajans, and other 
similar activities in campus/ 
hostel
24 Parking bicycle at places other 
than parking area
25 Playing with water/ colors / fire 
equipment/ crackers

===== PAGE 236 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
236
26 Irregularity in reporting for 
hostel attendance
Suspension from the hostel 
for a specified period.
Suspension from the 
hostel permanently.
27 Late reporting in the hostel after 
availing Out pass
28 Absence from Hostel without 
permission
Suspension from the hostel 
for a specified period.
Suspension from the 
hostel permanently.
29 Any unauthorized tours/visits 
by individual or group of 
students shall be treated as 
a serious conduct of violation 
and all such students will be 
imposed disciplinary penalties
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
32 During any of university 
arranged tours and visits 
student shall act with honor, 
integrity, dignity and maintain 
decorum of university.
Undertaking and recording 
in dossier of student and a 
fine amount of Rs. 5000/-
33 Any other misconduct, not 
included above
Action will be taken / penalty will be imposed at the 
discretion of the relevant Statutory Committee
Note: Hostel related issues will be directed to the wardens who will in turn report to the 
Grievance Redressal Committee.
Grievance Redressal Committee
Based on the severity and type of misconduct, student(s) who are involved in misconduct 
will be redirected to the Grievance Redressal committee (GRC) for enquiry and taking the 
decision on type of punishment to be enforced. The GRC shall form a committee for enquiry 
and take a decision on the punishment to be imposed. The assigned committee should 
complete the enquiry and resolve the issue within a week and submit the report to chair of 
the GRC.
Punishment Provisions in cases of Ragging
Any student or group of students found guilty of ragging on campus or off campus shall be 
liable to one or more of the following punishments: 
• Debarring from appearing in any mid exam/ university examination or withholding results 
• Suspension from attending classes and academic privileges.
• Withdrawing scholarships and other benefits 
• Suspension from the college for a period of one month 
• Cancellation of admission 
• Debarring from representing the institution in any national or international meet, 
tournament, youth festival, etc.

===== PAGE 237 =====
SRU Student Handbook 
237
• Suspension/expulsion from the hostel 
• Rustication from the institution for periods varying from 1 to 4 semesters or equivalent 
period.
• Expulsion from the institution and consequent debarring from admission to any other 
institution 
• Fine ranging between Rs. 25,000/- and Rupees 1 Lakh. 
• Imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend 
to ten thousand rupees or with both.
• Collective punishment - When the students committing or abetting the crime of ragging 
are not identified, the institution shall resort to collective punishment as a deterrent to 
ensure community pressure on the potential raggers.
Right to Appeal
The student(s) aggrieved by the action of any authority of the university under or subordinate 
to the Associate Dean (SW) can appeal to the Dean (SW) and any student aggrieved by 
the action of the Dean (SW) can appeal to the Vice-Chancellor. The student should appeal 
within two weeks’ time with proper justification of the appeal. The decision of the Vice-
Chancellor shall be final and binding on the students.
SRU will do its utmost to protect you if you are on the right side of the law. Do not violate 
your limits. Help us to help you.

===== PAGE 238 =====
[page 238 - no extractable text]